'I only have two eyes. If only I had 10 eyes I would know so now I am relying on being told''It s actually better Western investors will pull back and we have an opportunity to bring them back in our own terms, after we have consolidated our relations with Africa and Brics''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceTwo U.S. warships fired dozens of cruise missiles from the eastern Mediterranean Sea against the airbase controlled by Assad's forcesThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'It was an extraordinary flip-flop, done with a straight face'Members of President Jacob Zuma s inner circle mocked South Africa s descent into junk status this week, treating the potential body blow to South Africa s economic wellbeing as a big joke.One of them, Zuma s son Edward, said the ratings agencies did us a favour, really .Displaying a breathtaking ignorance of economics, Zuma s allies cheered the downgrade, which analysts&nbsp; warn could restrict the country to a low-growth path for decades.One close Zuma ally, Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, told a WhatsApp chat group: It s actually better Western investors will pull back and we have an opportunity to bring them back in our own terms, after we have consolidated our relations with Africa and Brics. We must rearrange our foreign debt repayments. Another member of the so-called Black Empowerment Foundation chat group, close Zuma associate and SAA chairwoman Dudu Myeni, replied to Mokonyane: I concur cdes. Let the rand fall and rise and emerge with the masses. While Zuma, once again, emerged victorious after a meeting of the ANC s extended national working committee, which many had hoped, in vain, would censure him, the economy will be the biggest loser, with some R80-billion wiped off banking stocks alone in less than a week, and the rand falling against the dollar.Economists have also warned that the downgrade will hit the poor hard, as the cost of borrowing rises and a faltering rand plays havoc with the cost of imported goods, especially fuel.But South Africans concerns for their futures, their investments and their pensions were not shared by the inner circle. As tens of thousands of South Africans marched on Friday in an unprecedented show of protest against Zuma s misrule, the president s allies gloated.Another Zuma ally, Black Business Council president Danisa Baloyi, told the group: Who really cares?Many South Africans don t have billions on the stock exchange. Those with money should transform this economy. Most black people are born in junk status so they aren t bothered. - See the full story in the Sunday Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.