Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decision'I don t get stressed. Stress is a white man s disease and that is why a term such as stress did not exist in the Zulu language''When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftNone of the military options for North Korea are good, and most risk sparking the conflict everyone wants to avoid possibly while leaving the country s nuclear program intactThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'About a year ago for the first time in my life I contemplated life away from South Africa. I looked at academic courses I could never afford'A special Cabinet meeting is due to take place to address the recent credit ratings downgrades by S&amp;P and Fitch.Speaking to investors at the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA) on Wednesday Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said: "The president s decision to convene a special Cabinet meeting arises from the two recent downgrades and his feeling that we need to take Cabinet on board and into our confidence with regards to the implications of this downgrade."Gigaba said investors wanted clarification on what the ANC meant by "radical economic transformation"."What I assured them is that when we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about to create jobs to address poverty to address inequality. We want programmes that are going to include as many people who are excluded from economic participation as possible " Gigaba said adding that there was no disjuncture between growing the economy and fostering inclusive growth."Everything we do must address the fundamental need to grow the economy and grow it inclusively ... because ultimately what we need is accelerated growth."Chief economist at Investment Solutions Lesiba Mothata said: "The sense we got is that the finance minister over the last 10 days has engaged a lot of people and has planned a road show. Investors have found a lot more comfort from what s come out of today."- TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.