The rally in Mr Price s shares rubs off onto the retail sector, which has been under pressure throughout May; Pioneer Foods rebounds after a sharp fallFewer and Fewer ANC voters support Jacob Zuma, and GM s withdrawal from India is a major surpriseThe fossil-fuel poor country s expertise counts in the sub-Saharan market as it expands south, writes Siona JenkinsLeaked e-mails show that Duduzane purchased the property with substantial assistance from the Guptas and their associates at the end of 2015Right2Know lodges request for surveillance stats as a loophole allows bypassing a judge and forcing a company to hand over call recordsUnlike the US, SA should use a privately funded system to cover depositors assets in the case of bank failureEmployees can face disciplinary action for their online comments or rantsEliminate jargon, cut out forms, replace long processes and do away with the financial adviser. Is this the way to get millennials to invest?Reigning women s champion Garbine Muguruza triumphs over Francesca Schiavone at Roland GarrosReading fiction is not only fun, but neuroscientists have found that novel-lovers understanding of other people s viewpoint improves, writes Andrew HillColumns and analysis by Business Day's top writers are usually accessible only to our subscribers. For one day only, you can read them for free. We are sure you will sign up for our R4-a-day subscription once you've read them.&nbsp;Here are your three free reads for today:Business Day editor Tim Cohen writes about the fallout from the ANC's national executive committee meeting under the headline Jacob Zuma slips into an abyss, but he is not the ANC's biggest problem.Tim writes:South Africans woke up on Monday to some profoundly disappointing news: the Teflon Don escaped censure once again. The resolution tabled at the ANC s national executive committee meeting at the weekend that President Jacob Zuma should resign was defeated again, and now SA seems certain to live in a state of flux and confusion until at least the party s December conference.So, alas, Zuma won again. Or did he?Business Day deputy editor Carol Paton's analysis appears under the headline Why the ANC NEC meeting could be good for SA.Carol argues:Political strife like this won t be good for the economy. We can expect a new populist economic policy to emerge from the June policy conference. The structural reforms that the Treasury has promised SA and investors, and other outstanding police issues, have no hope of being implemented or resolved. Economic growth will remain constrained.Given all of this, further credit ratings downgrades are sure to follow.Business Day's political editor, Natasha Marrian, writes about how Each challenge erodes Zuma s power.She observes:Every time an NEC is held in which Zuma is challenged, his power is tested.The limits of his power were unknown before Nhlanhla Nene's removal as finance minister in December 2015.Since then, every test Zuma has faced and every challenge made to his authority has shown the slow but steady erosion of that power.There remains a danger, though, in his continued languishing in the Union Buildings - this is the man who in the space of four days appointed two finance ministers, wiping about R90bn from government pension funds within 48 hours. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.