By JAN BORNMAN, ARON HYMAN, ERNEST MABUZA and PHILANI NOMBEMBE NET1 boss Serge Belamant, whose company, Cash Paymaster Services, is at the centre of the pension grants crisis, has come out fighting. ...'People are lobbying, there s no doubt. Lobby groups are all over the country, big ones, small ones, bold ones, all of that is happening''Not raising the retirement age will have serious ramifications for the majority of lower-income South Africans who don t have a private pension fund''In a test for reporters, one bus cruised a block-long circuit so consistently that it created a dirt track on the tarmac'Some of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in TokyoThe green sea turtle had been finding it hard to swim normally because of the weightSA now has a 24-point lead over Fiji at the halfway mark of the season and have built a solid foundation to claim their first overall title since 2009'I saw the artist glaring at us, despising our spineless decision to come to see his work, hating our approving nods. I understood his anger'South Africa&rsquo;s ruling party is at risk of further splits amid a battle for senior positions in the African National Congress, Deputy Secretary-General&nbsp;Jessie Duarte said.There is intense jostling to replace President Jacob Zuma, 74, as the head of the party and for other top positions, despite rules forbidding active campaigning, Duarte, 63, said in an interview in Johannesburg. The concern is that the losing group could break away to form a new party, as has happened in the lead up to or after previous ANC elective conferences, she said.The ANC s leadership contest comes at a time when the party risks losing the majority it s held in every vote since the first multi-racial ballot in 1994. A split could drag its support down to below 50 percent in the 2019 national elections, giving an opportunity for the opposition to join forces to take power. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, 64, and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, 68, a former African Union Chairwoman and the president s ex-wife, are seen by analysts as the main contenders to lead the ANC. Since 2007, every ANC conference has led to one or other split, Duarte said. There could be a spoilers breakaway after this conference, she said.Breakaway Parties Two major breakaway groups have cut into the ANC support base over the past decade. Some members who supported Thabo Mbeki at the 2007 conference formed the Congress of the People after Zuma took control of the party, while Julius Malema, its youth wing leader, formed the Economic Freedom Fighters after being expelled from the ANC in 2012.While Cope s backing has dwindled, the EFF garnered about 8 percent of the vote in local-government elections last year. That helped slash the ruling party s national support to 54 percent, its worst-ever electoral performance, and for opposition parties to take control of the capital, Pretoria, and economic hub, Johannesburg.The ANC needs to manage the electoral contest better and should consider allowing a limited time for candidates to campaign, Duarte said. Proposals such as introducing an electoral college to handle the internal vote will be discussed at a policy meeting in June, she said.Active Lobbying While rules still prohibit campaigning, groups continue to push for their candidates for the December election. People are lobbying, there s no doubt, Duarte said. Lobby groups are all over the country, big ones, small ones, bold ones, all of that is happening. The ANC s women s league has publicly backed Dlamini-Zuma to succeed Zuma, while the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country s largest labor group, as well as Jackson Mthembu,&nbsp;the party s parliamentary chief whip, have said they support Ramaphosa. Other leaders expected to contest the race for the top positions include Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize and Baleka Mbete, the speaker of Parliament and ANC chairwoman.To read more about the race for the ANC leadership contest, click hereThe frontrunner to replace Zuma will probably only become clear in the second half of the year, Duarte said. It s anybody s guess right now, she said. In August and September, the true madness sets in, that s where hardcore lobbying takes place. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.