The minister says there is no fight between him and SAPS or the Hawks and that the court order is being implementedZuma may need a pardon from his successor to avoid being jailed for 783 graft charges that were dropped before he became president in 2009A captured South African Treasury is bad news for the country's poor but the view that the capture is a natural enemy of the market economy is a mythThe technology could take about eight to 10 years to become usable by people with no disability, says MuskThe political party is dying and independents now rule among voters around the globeThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonusesA university student in sociology would learn much more from a morning in a Metrorail third-class carriage than in a seminar room on campusMinister of Police Fikile Mbalula has told reporters at the headquarters of the Hawks in Pretoria that former Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza acted unlawfully by arriving at the elite police unit s offices on Monday morning. We have been informed that General Ntlemeza entered the management meeting of the Hawks at their headquarters this morning and he ordered the head of supply chain to give him a car which is roaming around the streets of Pretoria or wherever he is this afternoon. And he has got a cellphone of government and state in his possession Mbalula said.He confirmed a warrant of arrest would have to be issued as Ntlemeza had broken the law and Ntlemeza s actions were considered unlawful and would be acted on decisively . I have explained in no uncertain terms to General Phahlane the consequences if he fails to act on Ntlemeza whether they are friends or not Mbalula said referring to acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane.Mbalula was however at pains to explain that there was no fight between the ministry and SAPS or the Hawks and that the court order was being implemented. There is no need for all this drama he said. This is not Hollywood. Lieutenant-General Ntlemeza is not entitled to report for duty or to exercise any powers or duties afforded to the head of the DCPI unless the SCA reverses its decision he said.TMG DigitalSouth Africans pls help to locate this crook, he is in possession of state vehicle and cellphone without authorization, wa nya tsotsi... pic.twitter.com/ym9hskrMRY Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.