Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'This judgment signifies unfettered encroachment of the judiciary into the realm of the executive pandering to the whims of the opposition'On 28 April, CNN's Christiane Amanpour interviewed former finance minister, Pravinn Gordhan. Here is the interview in fullScientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't knowLeaving the euro would be a "a fatal plan and a dangerous plan", Macron said. "What you propose is currency war."'When the news that we had started brewing the Pisner came out, a lot of people thought we were filtering the urine to put it directly in the beer and we had a good laugh about that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at Chiefs'Are we back at the dark days of apartheid when we really could not even be called partly free?'The National Foundations Dialogue Initiative (NFDI) which consists of foundations established by eight of the country s illustrious citizens will host its inaugural dialogue session in Johannesburg on Friday.The main objective of the session is to facilitate engagement among South Africans through conversations about issues that are key to nation building.The topic of the session is entitled: Why does South Africa need a national dialogue? A call to the nation. The initiative was officially launched in April last year to find lasting solutions to the country s problems.It consists of eight foundations: Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe FW de Klerk Thabo Mbeki Helen Suzman Desmond &amp; Leah Tutu Legacy Umlambo Chief Albert Luthuli and Jakes Gerwel.The NFDI said the success of the national dialogue would be measured by the extent to which it was inclusive of all sectors of South African society.It said this national process should enhance the appreciation by South Africans of the fact that the citizens of the country have shared problems questions and concerns.Three former presidents FW de Klerk Thabo Mbeki and Kgalema Motlanthe will address the dialogue session on Friday together with former deputy president Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka.There will also be an opportunity to put questions to the former office bearers before statements from the founding foundations are presented.There will also be group sessions to discuss the way forward.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.