'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'It has on Sunday morning been confirmed that veteran actor Joe Mafela died in a car accident on Saturday night.Metro police spokesperson Edna Mamonyane confirmed the news to TshisaLIVE in a statement.She confirmed that Mafela was involved in a car accident at around 10pm on the M1 North between the Oxford and Houghton Road off-ramps in Johannesburg."We can confirm that at 21:45 on M1 North between the Oxford and Houghton turn-offs there was an accident between a Ford Figo and a bakkie which took place in construction zone. The Bakkie hit the Ford which caused damage to the left hand side of the Ford Figo. The driver of the Figo&sbquo; driven by Mr Mafela&sbquo; was declared fatal by paramedics on the scene. His fatal condition may have been a medical condition that was brought in during the accident but an investigation into this is now underway&sbquo;" said Mamonyane.A family member&sbquo; Anthony Mafela also confirmed the news on Twitter this morning."Sad news.. My Uncle Joe Mafela passed on last night&sbquo;" Anthony said.Sad News.. My Uncle Joe Mafela passed on last night. @SowetanLIVE @sundayworld @SAFilmSociety @Penguin_Film pic.twitter.com/s0g9qAEYE6We would like to extend our deepest condolences on the death of legendary actor Joe Mafela. Ulale ngoxolo tata.. #RIPJoe pic.twitter.com/Imv56G4ZKPAttempts to reach Mafela's family have been unsuccessful at this stage.- TMG Digital. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.