The men had ACSA identity cards which gave them access to the airport's highly secure cargo area'By the standards of even the weakest democracy, the minister who imperiled the social grants of 17 million people would be gone''I believe that the decision of the Minister is reviewable and hereby give notice that I will seek re-course in the courts'The launch will involve new challenges for China in sample collection, taking off from the moon and high-speed reentry to the Earth's atmosphereSome of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in Tokyo'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members'He scared 128 to drag South Africa to 229/4 at stumps against New Zealand'The market screens degrees based on whether you achieved that qualification at the University of Zululand or the University of Cape Town. Nobody wants to deal with this elephant in the lecture room'Nothing better illustrates how patronage politics messes with delivery than the social grant fiasco. And yes, it&rsquo;s a fiasco. With less than a month to go before the CPS contract to disburse the grants expires, nobody knows for sure what the plan is.By the standards of even the weakest democracy, the minister who imperiled the provision of social grants to 17 million people slap-bang in the heart of the ruling party&rsquo;s constituency should have been long gone.But Bathabile Dlamini is playing a big political card right now, one that President Jacob Zuma desperately needs on the table. She is riding point for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma&rsquo;s campaign to succeed Zuma as president of the ANC and the country.She is able to do this because she wears two hats. She is welfare minister, but she is also the leader of the ANC Women s League, which is fiercely loyal to Zuma.She provides Dlamini-Zuma with a platform from which to campaign. Most recently, she hosted Dlamini-Zuma at a church service for the second time.It is fair to say that without Dlamini s support, Dlamini-Zuma would not have enjoyed nearly as much publicity and momentum as she does right now.It is, of course, a perilous gamble. Should there be a problem with the delivery of social grants, Dlamini-Zuma will find her wagon hitched to a dead horse because the ANC will have no choice but to defend itself by removing Dlamini or severely sanctioning her.And there is the fact that Dlamini-Zuma is not the only female candidate. Speaker Baleka Mbete and struggle blue-blood Lindiwe Sisulu have both thrown their hat in the ring.The question this begs is: Why is the ANC Women s League supporting a particular woman candidate and not all women who are standing? This weakens Dlamini s hold on the organisation and narrows its base to only those in favour of Zuma s succession plan.For the moment, though, patronage politics is triumphing over delivery, a precarious approach for the ANC to take as it faces the monumental task of reversing its electoral fortunes ahead of the 2019 vote. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.