Mayor Herman Mashaba said in a statement this failure in the customer service delivery system resulted in 412 000 accounts not being issuedFor 10 months and after six attempts Nquthu failed to sit and elect its office bearers'Solutions come first and foremost on the quality leadership that we have at the company in the form of the board''The continent s researchers are working on challenges as varied as astrophysics, malaria, HIV/AIDS and agricultural productivity''It was a huge explosion - you could feel it in your chest. It was chaotic. Everybody was running and screaming and just trying to get out''Oh my god. Trump has obtained the Bajoran Orb of Time'There were recalls for Steyn Jan Serfontein Francois Hougaard Duane Vermeulen Coenie Oosthuizen and Chiliboy Ralepelle who have more than 200 test caps of experience between them'There is no nice way of putting this, but for most parts of the past month, I wished people would leave me alone'The City of Johannesburg has announced a serious failure in its customer statement delivery system with regards to April accounts.The city s billing system is at crisis levels Finance MMC Rabelani Dagada said in his budget address on Tuesday.On Wednesday mayor Herman Mashaba said in a statement this failure in the customer service delivery system resulted in 412 000 accounts not being issued while 97 000 statements were issued incorrectly.He however emphasised that the city is currently working to ensure that all accounts are issued during this week and that those issued incorrectly are corrected. This will result in certain households receiving two statements this month; we apologise for any confusion caused. Double billing is a historical issue in our City and we have plans in place to ensure that it is a thing of the past by the end of June 2017 Mashaba said Mashaba said the automated system has never produced an error of this margin and that they suspect the system had been tampered with. He has instructed the city to engage with law enforcement agencies and the cyber crimes unit to investigate this failure.84% of Johannesburg s budget is made up of the revenue generated by the city. Mashaba says the implications of a delay in collecting revenue could have dire effects on our cash flow .Mashaba says the city s ability to address the service delivery backlogs depend on their success in collecting revenue.He appealed to affected residents to make payments based on the historical average billing on their accounts.- TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.