'It is getting down to the point where we have to make emergency decisions. Daily we are making decisions''We can t continue to fossilize the movement. The ANC has to go through a thorough process of modernization'Ramatlhodi told amaBhungane that he was pressured to effectively blackmail Glencore owner of the Optimum coal mine which supplied coal to Eskom s Hendrina power stationZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'Obviously, they re in a downward spiral right now and they ve got to come to grips with all that s happening''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'The Springboks were drawn with world champions New Zealand in Pool B for Rugby World Cup 2019 at a ceremony in Kyoto on Wednesday'The sky has shifted. And now the sand, white and fine and unmoved by a breeze, is running through the hourglass'South Africa s former mineral resources minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi has accused Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe and chairman Ben Ngubane of helping the Gupta family hijack a coal mine.The explosive allegations were revealed on Tuesday by the amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism and published by Eyewitness News.&nbsp;The allegations surface a day after Molefe resumed his job as CEO of the electricity utility after a dispute over his multi-million rand golden handshake .Ramatlhodi told amaBhungane that he was pressured to effectively blackmail Glencore owner of the Optimum coal mine which supplied coal to Eskom s Hendrina power station.Optimum was placed under business rescue after Molefe reportedly refused to renegotiate a coal supply contract and imposed a R2 billion penalty against the company.South Africa was experiencing load-shedding at the time. Ramatlhodi said he resisted pressure to suspend the company s mining licences and was soon afterwards removed as minister and replaced by Mosebenzi Zwane.Eskom board spokesman Khulani Qoma denied the allegations saying they were devoid of logic and all fair-minded citizens will find it impossible to believe it. Molefe did not respond to questions about the claims or the fact that the State of Capture report by former public protector Thuli Madonsela put him at the time in regular contact with the Gupta family.Molefe received a rousing welcome from employees as he reported for work on Monday.The Democratic Alliance has filed an urgent application with the North Gauteng High Court in a bid to stop Molefe from resuming his role as CEO.The ANC has also spoken out against Molefe s return to Eskom. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown was asked by the party to overturn the decision to reappoint him and dissolve the board.&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.