'Residents should make real preparations for the storm and not take it lightly. They should be prepared to stay inside their homes. Outside they should tie down belongings''Former leaders need to step away and go out on a high. The dangers of sticking around under new and substantially different leadership are now laid bare'Tiziana Life Sciences wants to mine the data of 13,000 people in an area known for its high proportion of centenarians, for clues about ageing and a range of disordersThe attack in London was horrific but armed officers were on the scene and ending it with astonishing speed'It was clear skies just before I started to mow the lawn. It was about 28 degrees outside so this whirlwind comes through. In a few minutes time it formed a tornado. I couldn t believe it'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...'Bob, always a taxing hill. Although you re aware of the current controversy around this route, a lot of people demanding that the Comrades get routed up and over Polly Graph'The Gupta family would welcome a judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture their lawyer Gert van der Merwe said on Tuesday.The family has come under intense scrutiny as a cache of damning leaked emails have been published exposing the extent to which they have allegedly captured influential politicians and benefited from lucrative state contracts.Van der Merwe speaking on Jacaranda FM said he would prefer to avoid a "trial by media" which could cloud opinions.He said that he had never suggested that the leaked emails were "made up" but said they needed to be the subject of an independent probe.The family therefore would support a judicial inquiry he said.The interview which touched on the lighter side of his interactions with the Guptas saw him quipping that he had never had a drink at the infamous Saxonwold shebeen.Asked if he had met any ministers or the president he said "I have not met the president or any ministers but I have met the president s son Duduzane Zuma " whom he did legal work for.Van der Merwe shot down claims that the family had fled the country last year. "Like any other normal family they left for the wedding of one of the brother s sons in Turkey " he said.He said the Gupta brothers were "pleasant" people to work with and added that during his interactions with them over the years he was "never exposed to ill-doing"."I will do my job to my best ability no matter the consequences " he said.The pressure of being their legal representative was worth his while as they too were entitled to representation."As far as I know my firm has never facilitated any financial activities between the Guptas and the ruling party " he reiterated.The explosive leaked emails surfaced as President Jacob Zuma fights for his political life.The emails show the extent of Gupta control over cabinet ministers and parastatal CEOs and board members.The correspondence also gives insight into the role of Zuma's son Duduzane in presidential matters.Duduzane is a close Gupta associate and is believed to have made billions through this partnership.Economic Freedom Fighters spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said last week that the party rejected any judicial commission of inquiry into state capture appointed solely by the president."In keeping with the recommendations of the public protector a judicial commission of inquiry that will be investigating Zuma cannot at the same time be solely appointed by Zuma. This will result in a conflict of interests in that it violates the basic principle of fair justice " he said.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.