Treasury officials confirmed to Business Day that preparations were being made for the possible cancellation of the US leg of the tour'Despite appropriate medical care, his condition is deteriorating. He is currently comfortable'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOsGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'He is not the first person to cast doubt on the mythical marginal gains concept, neither is he likely to be the last''I m tired of the fact that those disaffected few have influenced how we all live our lives'Anti-apartheid struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada&rsquo;s (87) condition has deteriorated in the last 24 hours.Kathrada was hospitalised in Johannesburg earlier this month for surgery related to blood clotting on the brain.The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation&rsquo;s Director Neeshan Balton said that the veteran had &ldquo;experienced several post-operation complications, rendering his condition serious&rdquo;.&ldquo;Kathrada has contracted pneumonia, which has affected both his lungs,&rdquo; Balton said. &ldquo;Despite appropriate medical care, his condition is deteriorating. He is currently comfortable.&rdquo;&ldquo;The Kathrada Foundation will keep the public informed on a regular basis about Kathrada&rsquo;s condition. Follow our Twitter handle @KathradaFound for updates,&rdquo; Balton added.&ldquo;We continue asking for your prayers during this period, both for Mr Kathrada and his family and friends.He indicated that members of the public were welcome to post their messages of support on the Foundation&rsquo;s Facebook page, or by emailing info@kathradafoundation.org.&ldquo;We have also had requests from people about where they can leave cards bearing messages of support, or flowers. This can be dropped off at the Foundation&rsquo;s offices (Signet Terrace Office Park, Block B, Suite 2 - 19 Guinea-Fowl Street, Ext 1, Lenasia).&ldquo;All of the messages that we have received will be collated and passed on to the family,&rdquo; Balton explained.Kathrada, a tireless activist for non-racialism and Constitutionalism, is one of three Rivonia Trialists still alive today; the other two being Andrew Mlangeni and Denis Goldberg. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.