'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio''Fear is a far more persuasive emotion than power, greed or fame'Political risk, Eskom, Sanral and SAA mentioned as key factors undermining confidenceCameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio'Moody s on Monday put South Africa on watch for a possible ratings downgrade dealing a double blow to the country s image as an investment destination in one day.A country s credit rating is a signal to investors of how capable the state is of repaying debt. The lower the rating the harder it is for the government to borrow money to spend on key projects.As a result domestic interest rates could also rise making it harder for ordinary South Africans to afford bonds credit cards furniture and other forms of debt.Moody s cited last week s Cabinet reshuffle by President Jacob Zuma which has sparked widespread political and popular outrage as the reason for the review.Zuma last Thursday announced dramatic changes to his Cabinet including the removal of respected finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas. The two were seen as a key defence against irregular government spending and had frequently clashed with Zuma. On 30 March the President of South Africa announced wide-ranging changes to the country s government changing top leadership in 10 ministries including in key portfolios such as finance and energy Moody s said in a statement. Changes within a government do not generally signal material changes in a country s credit profile. Here however the timing and scope of the reshuffle raises questions over the signal they send regarding the prospects for ongoing reforms the underlying strength of South Africa s institutional framework and the fragile recovery in the country s economic and fiscal position. The decision by Moody s came just hours after fellow ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor s said it had relegated South African credit to junk status.Zuma replaced Gordhan with Malusi Gigaba who is regarded as a close ally of the president and had until last week been in charge of the home affairs department.Gordhan s departure could trigger a two-notch downgrade on South Africa s local currency credit rating which would lead to as much as $10 billion going out of the country Reuters reported a day after Zuma s Cabinet decision.The reshuffle has renewed calls for Zuma to step down after a series of scandals including a Constitutional Court ruling last year that he had violated his oath of office over the Nkandla saga.Opposition parties have called for a vote of no confidence in the president to be carried out in parliament.Gigaba has moved quickly to allay fears of a drastic change in fiscal policy including communicating with ratings agencies. But it appears to have done little to address the concerns.-Source: TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.