'Sapo is capable of delivering a robust interim solution in 3 - 6 months covering current services delivered by Cash Paymaster Service''If you want to do anything with that tender go back to the Constitutional Court''I don't want load shedding to return and we have been assured of continued support from Eskom so that we continue to have the country supplied with power''This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet''At both a national and regional level, Europe s leaders appear to be suffering a crisis of confidence, popularity and at worst political legitimacy''I micro-analysed every aspect of the process from temperature to humidity water activity and air movement''Any loss of money is regrettable. Don't take it that R118 million lost means nothing; it means a lot. We went out of our way to secure the games - but not at all costs''It is a place of infinite suffering and utter despair, echoing with the wailing of the damned'A story in this morning&rsquo;s Business Day reveals how Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and her advisers are behind the new contract with Cash Paymaster Services to pay social grants.And guess what? Ministerial &lsquo;advisers&rsquo; were the ones piloting the plan which undermined the department and its officials.This from the story:Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and a few hand-picked advisers have emerged as the clique that constructed the illegal new contract with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS), excluding officials of the department and the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) from the process.Their exposure helps shed light on the bizarre goings on in the department and the agency that culminated in the director-general Zane Dangor resigning and two Sassa CEOs taking ill. It also appears to suggest that the delay in solving the crisis in grant distribution was engineered by a group of consultants acting at Dlamini&rsquo;s behest.It is said the advisers were appointed irregularly after first serving on an advisory panel to the minister in 2013. They advised on the establishment of the work streams and were later appointed to head these.You can read the full story here, but you will have to subscribe. Don&rsquo;t be cheap - it&rsquo;s just four bucks a day ...Bizarre goings on indeed. It now seems that the minister ran a &lsquo;parallel&rsquo; structure to that in the department and the agency through the advisers.Now cast your mind back to December 2015, when Des van Rooyen, his butt print still on the leather of a parliamentary back-bench, was elevated to finance minister for three thankfully short days. What was his first order of business? He introduced to a stunned gathering of Treasury officials a trio of &lsquo;advisers&rsquo; who were going to be running things.What is emerging here is an insight into the mechanics of state capture. Ministers, usually under-qualified, sometimes of dodgy character, are appointed with only one box ticked: absolute, unquestioning loyalty to Number One. Accompanying them into office are the people who are going to do the capturing. Unaccountable to anyone, never having to appear before Parliament, never responsible for any decisions, they reshape the way the ministry does things until the outcome pleases the minister, Number One and ghostly third parties who may or may not be cashing in on the deal.With the police and prosecution services long captured by Jacob Zuma&rsquo;s lame lick-spittles, there will be no investigation. If there is an investigation, the poor &lsquo;accounting officer&rsquo; who has a real job &ndash; the DG or similar &ndash; will be made to walk the plank.The advisors? They slink back into the shadows and quietly move on to their next assignment.One has to marvel at the genius of it. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.