On March 5 last year, the minister sent her a text message saying "take one down!". This appears to have been a request for a photo of her private parts'The tide is turning. The Zuma bet that South Africans will sit and watch while their country is stolen is falling apart. New movements are being born'Eskom has asked the regulator to waive some of the requirements for its 2018/19 tariff applicationZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'He keeps things vague, and then pokes his way into a given explanation, but leaves himself room to change direction in case he senses disapproval'The work led four days of bellwether auctions in New York where the world s wealthiest investors and families dropped more than $1.5 billion on Impressionist, modern, postwar and contemporary artBarcelona fought back from two goals down to beat Eibar 4-2 but the result could not stop Real from lifting the trophyI was startled by how many men came on the air pleading with women to cover themselves up, to avoid provocation because men will be men . Really?Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe is embroiled in a text sex scandal that threatens to torpedo his ambitions for higher office.Radebe, the country's longest-serving cabinet minister, is in hot water for raunchy text and e-mail communication in which he asks for nude pictures of a 29-year-old Union Buildings staffer, Siyasanga Mbambani.In one explicit SMS, the 64-year-old minister writes: "C.l.i.t is requested" in what is believed to be a reference to her clitoris.Mbambani, a presidential photographer, is currently on suspension on charges related to insubordination.She blew the whistle on the minister and his sexting to bolster her claim she was being victimised by her bosses at the government communications agency GCIS, for being "improperly close" to politicians at the Union Buildings when, in fact, they were the ones "chasing after" her.In the past two weeks Radebe, through his public relations people, set up a number of meetings to engage with the Sunday Times.Three meetings were held, but there was no official response to the allegations, despite promises.In the end, there was no response by the time of going to print yesterday, even after another meeting.Radebe and Mbambani began communicating via text messages and e-mails in 2014 after exchanging telephone numbers.The flirting started when she sent the minister pictures of himself at a government function.It was then that they exchanged cellphone numbers so that the minister could "thank you in person" for the pictures.On March 5 last year, the minister sent her a text message saying "take one down!". This appears to have been a request for a photo of her private parts.They then playfully string each other along for some time before she eventually sends him pictures of herself fully clothed."That one I requested," the minister responds in an SMS.jikat@sundaytimes.co.za-Read the full story in the Sunday Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.