It has also identified about 14,000 state employees who are listed as directors of companies that have been awarded state contracts in violation of regulations'They are aware you are abusing state property and resources in the name of yourself and not the public'Eskom has asked the regulator to waive some of the requirements for its 2018/19 tariff applicationScientists said the creature, known as Graecopithecus freybergi and known only from a lower jawbone and an isolated tooth, may be the oldest-known member of the human lineage'It was a huge explosion - you could feel it in your chest. It was chaotic. Everybody was running and screaming and just trying to get out'The work led four days of bellwether auctions in New York where the world s wealthiest investors and families dropped more than $1.5 billion on Impressionist, modern, postwar and contemporary artThere were recalls for Steyn Jan Serfontein Francois Hougaard Duane Vermeulen Coenie Oosthuizen and Chiliboy Ralepelle who have more than 200 test caps of experience between them'Jeff Radebe has plenty to vex him, but if anyone in Zuma s South Africa still believes that explicit sexts are enough to hurt an embedded politician, they really haven t been paying attention'Brian Molefe public statement on 11 November 2016:"I have, in the interests of good corporate governance, decided to leave my employ at Eskom from 1 January 2017. I do so voluntarily: indeed, I wish to pay tribute to the unfailing support I have had since I took up office from the chairperson, the Board and with those with whom it has been my privilege to work. Together we brought Eskom back from the brink. I will take time off to reflect before I decide on my next career move."Brian Molefe in an affadavit to court this week:"The correct position is that my original contract of employment did not come to an end."Embattled Eskom CEO Brian Molefe was considered to be on "unpaid leave" after his initial resignation from the power utility in November last year according to court papers filed on Monday.The Mail and Guardian reported that Molefe and Public Enterprises Minister Lynn Brown both agree he never resigned from Eskom in a set of answering affidavits filed in response to the DA's application which seeks to have Molefe removed from the position.Molefe who was made an ANC MP after he resigned from the power utility in November last year returned to his old job at Megawatt Park in Johannesburg last week amid a dispute in which he believed he was entitled to a payment of more than R30-million after his resignation.He had initially resigned from Eskom "in the interest of good corporate governance" but now he and Brown say he was actually on unpaid leave.While Brown and the Eskom board is expected to brief Parliament's portfolio committee on the reappointment of Molefe on Tuesday the two submitted affidavits in response to the DA's application on Monday.The Mail and Guardian reported that Molefe in his affidavit said: "It was explained to me that Eskom wanted me to return because of a concern about stabilising leadership and to address operational issues that it was facing."Brown said she was unhappy about Molefe's pension pay-out reported to be R30-million by the Sunday Times and she had in fact asked the board to make another plan.The plan was to reinstate him in his former position."The correct position is that my original contract of employment did not come to an end " Molefe said in his affidavit. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.