University takes the unusual step of issuing strong public statement on perilous state of the nation'The crisis and those who have created it reaches deep into the very fabric of our society and is based on an unquenchable need for power and money''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shift'Our revolutionary strong army is keenly watching every move by enemy elements with our nuclear sight focused on the U.S. invasionary bases not only in South Korea and the Pacific operation theatre ...The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitors'I did think about, am I ever going to win one?" admitted Garcia. "I've had so many good chances and either I lost them or someone has done something extraordinary to beat me''If, like me, you think that democracy is worth maintaining, then showing up is literally the least you can do'A week after South African President Jacob Zuma appeared to have weathered calls to resign, former leaders of the ruling African National Congress are ratcheting up pressure on him to quit after his shock cabinet purge prompted two ratings agencies to downgrade the nation s credit to junk.Former President Thabo Mbeki, in an opinion piece in the Johannesburg-based Star newspaper, joined another former leader, Kgalema Motlanthe, in urging ANC lawmakers to vote with their conscience on an opposition-sponsored no-confidence motion in parliament on April 18. Veterans of the party, including all those jailed with Nelson Mandela who are still alive, called for a national conference to discuss South Africa s worst political crisis in a decade. The crisis and those who have created it reaches deep into the very fabric of our society and is based on an unquenchable need for power and money, the veterans said Tuesday in an emailed statement.The public criticism from ANC officials and supporters came a day before opposition parties and civil rights groups plan to hold demonstrations in Pretoria, the capital, to pressure Zuma to resign. The so-called National Day of Action protests are scheduled to coincide with Zuma s 75th birthday.Zuma s decision to fire Pravin Gordhan as finance minister and make 19 other changes to his administration on March 31 drew widespread criticism, prompted S&amp;P Global Ratings to downgrade the nation s international credit rating to junk and weakened the rand. Fitch Ratings Ltd. followed suit on Friday, sending the currency to its weakest level since January.Nationwide Protests The contract between the African National Congress and the people of South Africa has unraveled, Zwelinzima Vavi, the former secretary-general of the Congress of South African Trade Unions, an ANC ally, told reporters Tuesday in Pretoria. South Africa is facing a political crisis that is playing itself out in the economy, affecting the working class and the poor in the most unbelievable way. Tens of thousands of people marched on April 7 in major cities including Johannesburg, the economic hub, Pretoria and Cape Town to demand that Zuma quit. Zuma criticized the protests on Monday, saying that some of demonstrators were inspired by racism.Zuma, who s due to step down as ANC leader in December and whose term as the nation s president ends in 2019, has survived a series of corruption scandals and presided over the party s worst-electoral performance since the end of apartheid in 1994 in municipal elections in August.ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe said last week that no ANC member would vote against Zuma in the no-confidence vote. To pass, the motion requires a simple majority of the 400 seats in National Assembly where the ANC holds a 62 percent majority.Makhosi Khoza, an ANC lawmaker, criticized the party s call to rally behind Zuma to preserve unity in the 105-year-old organization. We are directed to maintain unity at all cost even if leads us to the ditch, she wrote on her Facebook page. We are instructed to follow directionless directives without questioning or raising the risks, concerns for the route we are taking even if it leads us to the wasteland. - Bloomberg Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.