'I am still the acting chief executive officer; there is nothing wrong that I have done I have not appointed myself and would never give myself an increase'Legal provisions pointed out that the minister of finance can make regulations in relation to information that the minister deems necessary to obtain from the commissionerThe board confirmed that it had not authorised his pay hike and said it viewed the controversy over his pay in a dim light 'I think that we've made a crucial step towards finding if there is life out there''I suspect everyone is pleased to have the president toss aside his clown act, at least for one night''I am reminded how much his character angered me. How much he disappointed me. How much he taught me. Then I realise that Troy was my father, who died almost a dozen years ago''The communist Bram Fischer and the arch-conservative Andries Treurnicht were, in different eras, intervarsity participants''We don't compulsively follow the news because we want to know what's happening in the US or Syria. We follow it because we need to touch and be touched by other apes.'Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has legislative powers to demand the information he requires from South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane.This emerged from a briefing by Treasury deputy director general Ismail Momoniat to members of Parliament's finance committee ahead of public hearings on the 2017/18 budget on Wednesday.Gordhan has complained in the past about the lack of accountability by SARS and about not being informed by Moyane about important developments within the tax authority.More recently there have been concerns over whether SARS has withheld VAT refunds in order to boost its tax revenue collection.The relationship between the minister and the commissioner has deteriorated to an all time low and the minister might have to make use of the legislative powers at his disposal to ensure that he is kept informed about what is going on in SARS.Momoniat noted that in terms of Section 107 of the Income Tax Act and Section 74 of the VAT Act&sbquo; the minister of finance "is entitled to make regulations prescribing amongst other things the information that he needs to obtain from the commissioner to ensure smooth tax administration and optimal revenue collection of personal income tax&sbquo; corporate income tax&sbquo; capital gains tax&sbquo; withholding taxes as well as VAT respectively."Momoniat noted that both legal provisions explicitly pointed out that the minister of finance can make regulations in relation to information that the minister deems necessary to obtain from the commissioner in order to ensure transparency and reporting on tax collection.- TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.