Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decisionZuma on Thursday filed an affidavit opposing the UDM's application saying that voting by way of an open ballot vote is not unconstitutional'When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftNone of the military options for North Korea are good, and most risk sparking the conflict everyone wants to avoid possibly while leaving the country s nuclear program intactThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'The sad and scary truth is that in this part of the continent we turn on our white brothers and sisters when we are unable to change the lot of the poorest among us' When you beat a dog its owner comes out. The president did that and that is why they are all coming out. This is what ANC Women s League president and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini had to say on Wednesday in response to all those who had come out to march against Zuma.Speaking at Zuma s 75th birthday celebrations in Kliptown Soweto Dlamini said Zuma was facing a revolt because he had tried to rectify those within the party who were out of line.Dlamini who has also faced criticism after the social grants debacle said the Women s League would continue to throw its weight behind Zuma. As women we said you will lead until the end of your term said Dlamini.She called on women to protect the ruling party.Dlamini had nothing but praise for the embattled president saying he had connected South Africa with his infectious smile. It brings hope Dlamini said of Zuma.She hailed him for remaining strong even throughout the criticism.In Pretoria opposition parties had marked Zuma s birthday by protesting against him calling on him to step down. But Zuma was undeterred as he danced and sang in celebration.He said he wasn t fazed by the opposition stating that they had also attacked former presidents Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki. Mandela named them as Minnie Mouse parties said Zuma to laughter from the crowd. Just ignore them he said.Zuma said he understood the dynamics of politics and he was in his position for no other reason but to serve the people. Being hated is nothing new to me. They were never my pals and will never be Zuma said all of his critics.-&nbsp;TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.