'We are not going to be threatened and we will get to the bottom of this R5.1-billion that is corruption and we are going to deal with it''Why such a vicious attack against Gordhan? He s been willing to stare down the nationalists within the ANC, who have benefited from the weaknesses of Zuma s leadership''This is about a critical safety matter, with people's lives potentially in danger. We want to get to the bottom of this'The acceleration was necessary to slightly shift MAVEN's orbit and steer the satellite clear of the Martian moon Phobos'Their colleagues, given the traditions of the Senate, will likely start with a ceremonial sharpening of knives during closed hearings''I'm a little dazed, which I imagine is totally normal after one week living in a rock''The communist Bram Fischer and the arch-conservative Andries Treurnicht were, in different eras, intervarsity participants''There is no typical black person. You will find black people of every political conviction and every religious persuasion'Microfossils up to almost 4.3 billion years old found in Canada of microbes are similar to the bacteria that thrive today around sea floor hydrothermal vents and may represent the oldest-known evidence of life on Earth, scientists said on Wednesday.The fossils from the Hudson Bay shoreline in northern Quebec near the Nastapoka Islands lend credence to the hypothesis that hydrothermal vents spewing hot water may have been the cradle of life on Earth relatively soon after the planet formed, the researchers said.They also said Earth's planetary neighbor Mars at that time is thought to have had oceans, long since gone, that may have boasted similar conditions conducive to the advent of life.Tiny filaments and tubes made of a form of iron oxide, or rust, formed by the microbes were found encased in layers of quartz that experts have determined to be between 3.77 billion and 4.28 billion years old, according to the study published in the journal Nature.The researchers expressed confidence the fossils from northeastern Canada were formed by organisms, saying no non-biological explanation was plausible.It was primordial microbes like those described in the study that set in motion the evolutionary march toward complex life and, eventually, the appearance of humans 200,000 years ago."Understanding how and when life began on Earth helps answer the long-standing questions: Where do we come from? Is there life elsewhere in the universe?" said study researcher Matthew Dodd, a University College London biogeochemist.The scientists said the primordial microbes' structure closely resembled modern bacteria that dwell near iron-rich hydrothermal vents. They believe that, like their modern counterparts, they were iron-eaters. The rock's composition was consistent with a deep-sea vent environment."This is important for the origin of life," said study researcher Dominic Papineau, a University College London astrobiologist. "It shows microbial life diversified to specialized microbes very early in Earth history."It is also important for the evolution of life. It shows that some microbes have not changed significantly" since Earth's early times, Papineau said.Earth formed about 4.5 billion years ago and the oceans appeared about 4.4 billion years ago. If the fossils are indeed 4.28 billion years old, that would suggest "an almost instantaneous emergence of life" after ocean formation, Dodd said.The fossils appear to be older than any other previously discovered evidence of life. For example, other scientists last year described 3.7 billion-year-old fossilized microbial mats, called stromatolites, from Greenland.- Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.