Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'Helen's article in the Sunday Times was neither approved or agreed with''Sadly, too many people s moral compasses malfunction at the sight of the lovely new balance on their bank statement'The X-37B, one of two in the Air Force fleet, conducted unspecified experiments for more than 700 days while in orbitHis election represents a long-awaited generational change in French politics where the same faces have dominated for years'When the news that we had started brewing the Pisner came out, a lot of people thought we were filtering the urine to put it directly in the beer and we had a good laugh about that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at Chiefs'Are we back at the dark days of apartheid when we really could not even be called partly free?'Deputy&nbsp;President Cyril Ramaphosa will heed ANC stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela s advice to return to Marikana to address the painful issue of the horrific 2012 shooting that left 34 miners dead.Speaking at Rhodes University in the Eastern Cape yesterday, Ramaphosa said messages he sent to Lonmin management calling for action before the shooting were meant to prevent further disaster.He had been horrified that 10 miners had been murdered eyes gouged and hearts ripped out and wanted to avoid more deaths. Yes I may have used unfortunate language in the [e-mail] messages and for which I have apologised and for which I do apologise. He reiterated that he had never intended that any miner be shot. For nine years of my life I put everything I had to advance their interests. It could never be that I would then say that 34 mineworkers should be killed. But Madikizela-Mandela had advised him the matter should be addressed and had offered to go with him to Marikana. I have said [to her]: I will accept your counsel and am willing to do so in this regard. She wants to do it as she also feels pained by what happened and says I must address it. I am willing to do that and willing to be led by her, he said.He also acknowledged that the ANC had not lived up to its pro-poor policies and warned that if the party did not listen carefully to South Africa s youth, it would face the consequences. Young people are feeling increasingly frustrated [and] ignored They see the opulence of the state that favours pomp and ceremony over education and putting bread on the table. They sense a leadership becoming more and more distant from ordinary people, a leadership tolerant of corruption and insensitive to the needs of its people. Speaking later to about 2000 people at a cadres forum organised by the ANC s Sarah Baartman region, Ramaphosa urged ANC branches to elect leaders in December who would not steal taxpayers money. Go and choose wisely. What type of ANC do we want? We want an ANC of high integrity. We want an ANC which is going to stand against corruption. We want an ANC that will not tolerate thieves. DispatchLive Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.