'We are not going to be threatened and we will get to the bottom of this R5.1-billion that is corruption and we are going to deal with it''Why such a vicious attack against Gordhan? He s been willing to stare down the nationalists within the ANC, who have benefited from the weaknesses of Zuma s leadership''This is about a critical safety matter, with people's lives potentially in danger. We want to get to the bottom of this'The acceleration was necessary to slightly shift MAVEN's orbit and steer the satellite clear of the Martian moon Phobos'Their colleagues, given the traditions of the Senate, will likely start with a ceremonial sharpening of knives during closed hearings''I'm a little dazed, which I imagine is totally normal after one week living in a rock''The communist Bram Fischer and the arch-conservative Andries Treurnicht were, in different eras, intervarsity participants''There is no typical black person. You will find black people of every political conviction and every religious persuasion'A NASA science satellite orbiting Mars was forced to make a rare evasive maneuver to avoid a collision next week with one of the planet's two small moons, the U.S. space agency said on Thursday.Flight controllers at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, commanded the MAVEN spacecraft, which is studying Mars' vanishing atmosphere, to fire up its engine on Tuesday to boost its speed by about 1.3 feet per second (0.4 meters per second).The acceleration was necessary to slightly shift MAVEN's orbit and steer the satellite clear of the Martian moon Phobos, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said in a statement.Without the tweak, MAVEN and the small, lumpy moon would have reached the same point in space within seven seconds of one another next Monday, March 6. In its new orbit, MAVEN will miss Phobos by about 2-1/2 minutes, NASA said.MAVEN is in an egg-shaped orbit that regularly crosses the paths of other science satellites and of Phobos, which circles just 6,000 miles (9,656 km) above the Martian surface, closer than any other known moon to a planet in the solar system. At that distance, Phobos whips around Mars three times a day.Flight controllers regularly monitor MAVEN's path for potential collisions. Tuesday's evasive action was the first time MAVEN had to dodge the potato-shaped Phobos, which measures about 10 by 14 miles by 11 miles (16 by 22.5 by 18 km).MAVEN, short for Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution, reached the red planet in September 2014.- Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.