Photographs taken at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada in Johannesburg'For the first time I literally have my heart in my throat: the fear is palpable'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOs'They are bigger than anything that has been recorded anywhere in the world'The insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'We need to stop fighting with yesterday'The first details of a tense late-night meeting at which President Jacob Zuma said he was going ahead with the firing of Pravin Gordhan from the finance ministry have emerged.Zuma convened a meeting of the ANC's 'top six' on Wednesday evening. Present were his&nbsp;deputy Cyril Ramaphosa, secretary general Gwede Mantashe, treasurer Zweli Mkhize, chair Baleka Mbete and deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte.At the marathon three-hour meeting, Zuma said he was firing Gordhan and Jonas because of an 'intelligence report' which purported to prove they intended&nbsp;meeting with people who wished to see Zuma overthrown when they travelled to the UK and US on investor roadshows planned for this week.Zuma authorised the roadshows and then rescinded his authorisation. Gordhan was already in the UK and had to fly back to the country. Jonas had to cancel plans for the US leg of the roadshow.He was expected to fire both on Tuesday morning when Gordhan arrived back in the country, but struggle veteran Ahmed Kathrada passed away early that morning, forcing him to delay his action.The intelligence report, which appears to be the work of amateurs and which lacks the usual hallmarks of a tested intelligence document, has been dismissed as a poorly-executed hoax by most who have seen it.Ramaphosa and Mantashe both told Zuma that he would be making a mistake if he fired Gordhan and Jonas, but Zuma insisted on going ahead."They objected to the use of the intelligence report to justify firing Pravin, but he insisted," said a person close to the meeting.The decision leaves the ANC divided at the highest level.Coming in the wake of the funeral of veteran Ahmed Kathrada on Wednesday at which Zuma was severely criticised to loud applause and standing ovations, the divisions at the highest level may have serious consequences for party unity. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.