'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio'The party's decision to allow him to proceed with a cabinet appointed 'elsewhere' means it has given up power to the shadows'The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe U.S. and South Korean militaries said initial assessments indicated the launch was of a KN-15 medium-range ballistic missileThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'The tragedy is that our leaders, quite simply, have forgotten where they come from. They have forgotten their people. They have forgotten us'President Jacob Zuma is now more powerful than the ANC and its constitution. The moment of crisis for the party has come and gone. Zuma has prevailed and the ANC s top leadership have been defeated.Granted, the protests against Zuma s decision to shaft former finance minister Pravin Gordhan were muted and phrased in the vaguest of terms.The ANC s deputy president, Cyril Ramaphosa, its secretary general, Gwede Mantashe, and its treasurer, Zweli Mkhize, all spoke out against the decision, saying it appeared that Zuma s reshuffle ignored the ANC s proposals in favour of a list from somewhere else .But, by ANC standards, such a public airing of disagreement was unprecedented.The party s integrity commission, its allies in the SACP and Cosatu, its veterans and several other prominent members all publicly called on Zuma to quit.So there was a showdown of sorts within the ANC. Its national working committee met to decide what to do.Its decision was that Zuma had the right to do what he pleased and that the ANC fully supported the new ministers he had appointed.Yes, there was a gentle chiding, but this was not over Zuma s decision to fire Gordhan. It was over his decision to use a dodgy intelligence report as the basis for the decision.The integrity commission withdrew its letter calling on Zuma to quit because, apparently, it had not followed procedure.And the ANC said it would meet with its alliance partners to discuss their calls on Zuma to quit.In short, Zuma runs the ANC, not the other way around.What this means is pretty frightening. He will emerge emboldened and he will use his power to ensure that his chosen successor, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, takes over from him. He will rule from the shadows beyond his term.The implications are serious for the ANC. It has handed yet another political peach to the opposition, which thrives on the continuation of Zuma s ragged running of the state. It will face a further loss of support in the 2019 election and will almost certainly lose Gauteng.Mantashe s assurances that the ANC will see to it that the country s financial institutions are not tampered with rings hollow. Zuma has been given the green light to proceed with his state capture agenda and you can be sure that it is a matter of time before financial institutions are bent to his will. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.