'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio'The party's decision to allow him to proceed with a cabinet appointed 'elsewhere' means it has given up power to the shadows'The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe U.S. and South Korean militaries said initial assessments indicated the launch was of a KN-15 medium-range ballistic missileThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'The tragedy is that our leaders, quite simply, have forgotten where they come from. They have forgotten their people. They have forgotten us'President Jacob Zuma erred by using a dodgy intelligence report to justify the sacking of Pravin Gordhan, but he would not be asked to step down, the ANC has said.At a media briefing in Johannesburg, the party s secretary general reported instead that senior ANC officials who criticized his decision were responsible for unfortunate "public dissonance". The ANC is gravely concerned about the breach of confidentiality between the alliance and the South African Communist Party, he said, because they had leaked the contents of a closed meeting .Mantashe gently chided Zuma saying consultation is a principal of the organization, not a favour . The prerogrative of the president, premiers and mayors should be exercised after consultation with the leadership of the organization, he said.He said the ANC s National Working Committee accepted the irretrievable breakdown of the relationship between Zuma and Gordhan but was not impressed by the intelligence report that was questioned from left, right and centre .The ANC was fully behind the new ministers. The ANC wishes them well in their new roles and calls on South Africans to rally behind them. The ANC has full confidence in the new finance minister, Malusi Gigaba. Mantashe said of financial institutions: There will be no tampering with the institutions. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.