Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'I challenge you that the delegate you send to our congress in July be given a mandate to discuss this. You must be bold,' said NzimandeMoody s is the only one of the three big ratings agencies that has not yet announced its outlook'This is surprising. It was believed it would have been millions of years in age''Logic would tell you that you don't want the national security adviser to be in a position where the Russians have leverage over him''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at ChiefsThere's a packed programme of events at The Franschhoek Literary Festival on the weekend of May 19 to 21. Here are the highlightsThe rand was weaker at midday on Tuesday amid speculation that ratings agency Moody s would soon downgrade SA one notch with a negative watch.Moody s is the only one of the three big ratings agencies that has not yet announced its outlook. S&amp;P Global Ratings and Fitch downgraded SA to junk status in the first week of April.Moody s has not said when it will make its announcement with Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba engaging with the ratings agency since April.Nomura analyst Peter Attard Montalto said the speculation was that Moody s may downgrade in coming weeks without a visit to SA.He said the original view was Moody s analysts would visit SA sometime towards the end of May and then report at mid-June before its July 3 window deadline."This would take the market by surprise regarding the timing not the move " he said. The consensus seems to still be a one-notch downgrade maintaining a negative watch he said.At 11.37am the rand was at R13.6670 to the dollar from a previous R13.6135. It weakened to R13.7095 in early morning trade.The rand was at R14.8969 against the euro from R14.8805 and at R17.6626 against the pound from R17.6191.The euro was at $1.0899 from $1.0931.Nedbank Corporate and Investment Banking analysts said Moody s was likely to downgrade both the local-currency and foreign-currency credit ratings by one notch respectively to Baa2 one notch above investment grade.They were also likely to keep a negative outlook with continued fiscal slippage higher debt-to-GDP levels an increase in contingent liabilities sustainably low GDP growth and economic policy uncertainty presenting downside risks Nedbank said.The rand was also under pressure from a stronger dollar with the greenback making further inroads into the euro on upbeat views on the US economy.TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.