By JAN BORNMAN, ARON HYMAN, ERNEST MABUZA and PHILANI NOMBEMBE NET1 boss Serge Belamant, whose company, Cash Paymaster Services, is at the centre of the pension grants crisis, has come out fighting. ...A detailed analysis of the 2016 election shows how the party is no longer in a majority in urban areas and is losing rural voters'Not raising the retirement age will have serious ramifications for the majority of lower-income South Africans who don t have a private pension fund''In a test for reporters, one bus cruised a block-long circuit so consistently that it created a dirt track on the tarmac'Some of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in TokyoThe green sea turtle had been finding it hard to swim normally because of the weightSA now has a 24-point lead over Fiji at the halfway mark of the season and have built a solid foundation to claim their first overall title since 2009'I saw the artist glaring at us, despising our spineless decision to come to see his work, hating our approving nods. I understood his anger'The&nbsp;government is contemplating regulating social media to counter &ldquo;false narratives&rdquo; and the spread of fake news, said State Security Minister David Mahlobo.Mahlobo, who was part of a press briefing given by the ministers of justice, crime prevention and security cluster in Pretoria, hinted at the government&lsquo;s plans yesterday.He was responding to a question on what intelligence services were doing to deal with misleading information on social media.Mahlobo said social media, instead of providing &ldquo;endless opportunities&rdquo; for personal and business interaction, had become host to negative and untrue opinions.&ldquo;There is a lot of peddling that is going on [in social media],&rdquo; said Mahlobo, adding that the government was contemplating regulating the medium.&ldquo;Even the best democracies that are revered, [are] regulating [social media]. Most of our challenges are coming from that space. We will discuss how we will regulate it.&rdquo;Murray Hunter, spokesman for the Right2Know Campaign, said although the spread of false information and fake news online was worrying, it would be a huge threat to media freedom if the state regulated the social media space.&ldquo;This is what we have seen happening in Zimbabwe. This is what we have seen happening in Cameroon, Egypt and other areas. When governments lose control of their political powers, they clamp down on social media.&rdquo;Hunter said there was a Cybercrimes and Cybersecurity Bill, proposed by the justice department, which dealt with some of the issues raised by Mahlobo.&ldquo;When we add statements that Mahlobo has made in the past, one wonders whether the minister of state security is becoming a threat to national security.&ldquo;South Africa&lsquo;s populace will push hard against this proposal. The minister has no role. He should keep off social media.&rdquo; Hunter said the government should instead fix major failings, such as corruption and the payment of social grants.- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.