'Jennifer was a vibrant force for good and as a former chairperson of the De Beers Fund she inspired us and touched the lives of thousands of people'In an often bewildering interview on Power FM Edward Zuma said he believed the Gupta family should be deported and appeared to suggest that his father should be arrested if found guiltyFor the ANC to demand that a minister rescind her decision to send Molefe back to Eskom is a milestone in the nascent creation of a culture of accountability in the governing partyZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will confirm what we already know - there was no collusion between my campaign and any foreign entity'The earrings, known as the Apollo Blue and the Artemis Pink, were bought by the same buyer, who wants to remain anonymous'It s just crazy. But to do it with a club of this size and magnitude I think it's a great achievement''No human being deserves this kind of salacious slander from a group of despicable men unconscious of their racial privilege'Jennifer Ward Oppenheimer wife of South Africa's billionaire mining scion, Jonathan died on Tuesday at the age of 50.A short obituary notice was published in the press by the family on Thursday which stated the mother of three passed away peacefully at their UK&nbsp;home. She is believed to have suffered a brain tumour.Ward Oppenheimer a Harvard trained lawyer and Fulbright Scholar was well known for her African philanthropic efforts and was a joint founder of the Brenthurst Foundation which brings together the world's leading thinkers and practitioners to promote the continent's economic growth and development.She was also involved in supporting the Centre for African Studies at her alma mater Harvard University from which she had graduated magna cum laude.The family had also recently endowed a chair at Cambridge to teach the deep history of Africa to mark her 50th year.According to the obituary notice there will be a private funeral service in the UK on Saturday 20 May with details of a South African memorial service to be released later. The family thank everyone for their support at this difficult time it read.In a statement issued to TimesLive on Thursday De Beers said the company was mourning the tragic loss. Jennifer was a vibrant force for good and as a former chairperson of the De Beers Fund she inspired us and touched the lives of thousands of people. The hearts of everyone at De Beers are with her adoring husband Jonathan and their beautiful children Samuel Isabel and Nathaniel the statement read. I remember her as a bubbly vibrant and passionate person who was very involved in the work she wanted to contribute to the country said Shelagh Gastrow a founder and director of Gastrow Bloch Philanthropies and former executive director Inyathelo of which Ward Oppenheimer and her husband were generous donors.Gastrow said Ward Oppenheimer was especially passionate about funding projects in higher education social development and entrepreneurship .&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.