'It does not seem that there are controls at the entity to ensure good governance in line with legislation'Argentina's opposition achieved the unimaginable. So too can South Africa'sBehind the violence are armies of heavily armed thugs, allegedly including police, who help syndicates wage a war for control of the highly lucrative underground turfThe launch will involve new challenges for China in sample collection, taking off from the moon and high-speed reentry to the Earth's atmosphereSome of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in Tokyo'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members'He scared 128 to drag South Africa to 229/4 at stumps against New Zealand'Secondhand smoke has immediate effects on blood and blood vessels in a way that increases the risk of triggering a heart attack'The Portfolio Committee on Transport has resolved to establish an inquiry into governance challenges at the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa).This comes after the Prasa board was dissolved by parliament on Wednesday&sbquo; after a two day briefing to the portfolio committee on transport."We have been fired" said a board member in parliament.The briefing was held to discuss Prasa governance challenges and the recent axing of the former Acting Group Chief Executive Officer&sbquo; who was seconded from the Department of Transport.The Chairperson of the Committee&sbquo; Dikeledi Magadzi&sbquo; said the resolution was not taken lightly by the committee.&ldquo;After two days of deliberations&sbquo; the Committee still did not have a sense of whether Prasa will be saved. It is important that Prasa works if we are to grow the economy and deliver on the mandate to get poor South Africans to work&sbquo;&rdquo; Magadzi said.Magadzi said there was no sense that the board was in control of anything.&ldquo;It does not seem that there are controls at the entity to ensure good governance in line with legislation. That said&sbquo; the Committee is of the view that the entity could still be saved&sbquo;&rdquo; she said.The Chairperson said the terms of reference and composition of the inquiry will be decided at the next Committee meeting.&ldquo;Representatives and officials should at all times seek to be of use to the poor people we are meant to serve. Prasa is spending public funds resolving disputes and fighting among officials and&sbquo; in the meantime&sbquo; delivery to the people is suffering&sbquo;&rdquo; Magadzi said. - TMG Digital/The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.