'While a healthy open discussion about the media is essential to any democracy, this sort of slanderous attack is to be regretted'Before Jacob Zuma became president, I speculated about what might happen. Most of it has come true ...'Equilibrium is merely one of many conceivable states of that world; there s no particular reason to believe that the economy would naturally tend toward it''This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet'Park becomes South Korea's first democratically elected leader to be forced from office, capping months of paralysis and turmoil'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members'Smith was seen looking to the Australian dressing room while considering appealing against his dismissal for lbw as Australia were going down to a 75-run defeat'Maybe the minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini was told that story at her mother s knee. It would explain how she deals with unethical behaviour'Deputy&nbsp;President Cyril Ramaphosa has distanced himself from calls for embattled social development minister Bathabile Dlamini to be axed over the social grants debacle.Ramaphosa told MPs yesterday that only President Jacob Zuma was in a position to evaluate the performance of ministers and to make a determination on whether they remained in their jobs.The deputy president was responding to a range of questions in the National Assembly yesterday, among them questions about the social grant crisis facing Dlamini and the department of social development.Ramaphosa pleaded with MPs to allow Dlamini and the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) space to manage a crisis that could leave 17 million grant dependants unpaid at the end of March. He said the social grant debacle was being dealt with by the Constitutional Court. Members of the executive are evaluated by the president, who appoints them. The president evaluates the deputy president and members of the executive on an ongoing basis. In his hand rests the power to appoint and do otherwise. It really belongs in the realm of presidential prerogative and it s only the president who can do so, said Ramaphosa.Ramaphosa was responding to a question from DA leader Mmusi Maimane, who initially wanted to know what Ramaphosa, in his capacity as leader of government affairs in parliament, had done since his appointment in May 2014 to ensure that Dlamini appeared before committees of the national legislature when required.Dlamini came under fire last week for snubbing a meeting of the standing committee on public accounts to discuss the social grants fiasco. She eventually attended on Tuesday. There is a point as South Africans at which we must stand on the side of the poor. Would you support the call to say minister Dlamini should in fact resign for this crisis over social grants? asked Maimane.The UDM s Bantu Holomisa asked Ramaphosa if Dlamini was fit to stay in office, after undermining the National Assembly and bringing the executive and country into disrepute . Would you advise the president to evaluate (her) fitness to hold office, asked Holomisa. Ramaphosa said that, constitutionally, cabinet members were accountable collectively and individually to Parliament for the way they did their jobs.- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.