'I only have two eyes. If only I had 10 eyes I would know so now I am relying on being told''Gordhan refused to rubber stamp an unaffordable and unneeded multi-multi-billion rand nuclear energy programme that would benefit a select few''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceTrump's White House team has grappled with infighting and intrigue that has hobbled his young presidencyThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'It was an extraordinary flip-flop, done with a straight face'Three former members of South African President Jacob Zuma s administration resigned as lawmakers for the ruling African National Congress before this month s debate of a motion of no confidence in the nation s leader.Former Transport Minister Dipuo Peters, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, who was the energy minister, and ex-Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas resigned as members of parliament, effective March 31, the National Assembly said in emailed statements. Zuma fired Peters, Joemat-Pettersson and Jonas in a cabinet&nbsp;reshuffle announced shortly after midnight the same day.By resigning immediately after their removal, the former ministers and Jonas may ensure they receive pensions according to their previous positions in the administration instead of what they would receive as lawmakers should they retire later.While opposition leaders have urged ANC lawmakers to vote according to their conscience in the April 18 vote in the National Assembly,&nbsp;where the ANC has a 62 percent majority, party Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe said Wednesday they won t oppose Zuma. The rules of parliament don t allow for a secret ballot.The ANC is allowed to fill those seats before the vote, according to parliamentary rules. The motion requires a simple majority of lawmakers at the time of the vote,&nbsp;provided there is a quorum, for it to carry or be rejected, parliamentary spokesman Moloto Mothapo said by phone from Cape Town.Zuma s decision to fire Pravin Gordhan as finance minister and make 19 other changes to his administration drew widespread criticism, prompted S&amp;P Global Ratings to downgrade the nation s credit rating to junk and weakened the rand.- Bloomberg Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.