'Jennifer was a vibrant force for good and as a former chairperson of the De Beers Fund she inspired us and touched the lives of thousands of people'In an often bewildering interview on Power FM Edward Zuma said he believed the Gupta family should be deported and appeared to suggest that his father should be arrested if found guiltyFor the ANC to demand that a minister rescind her decision to send Molefe back to Eskom is a milestone in the nascent creation of a culture of accountability in the governing partyZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will confirm what we already know - there was no collusion between my campaign and any foreign entity'The earrings, known as the Apollo Blue and the Artemis Pink, were bought by the same buyer, who wants to remain anonymous'It s just crazy. But to do it with a club of this size and magnitude I think it's a great achievement''No human being deserves this kind of salacious slander from a group of despicable men unconscious of their racial privilege'President Jacob Zuma s son Edward has spoken out on allegations of state capture saying he supports calls for a commission of inquiry.In an often bewildering interview on Power FM Edward Zuma said he believed the Gupta family should be deported and appeared to suggest that his father should be arrested if found guilty.The president s son was asked to comment on politics in the country including allegations made this week by former minerals minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi who supported claims that Eskom CEO Brian Molefe and chairman Ben Ngubane had pushed Glencore s Optimum mine out of business so that the operation could be bought by Gupta-owned Tegeta.The Guptas are believed to be close to President Zuma and is in business with the president s younger son Duduzane.Commenting on Ramatlhodi s claims Edward said: I would say arrest all of them because to me they are all criminals. Everybody that is involved in that conspiracy he said when asked who he was referring to. But your father the president is fingered as suspect number one in state capture interviewer JJ Tabane interjected. My father being the president doesn t therefore necessarily mean he is immune to this and that Edward replied.But later in the interview he appeared to contradict himself: The former minister is just dreaming. He wishes things were on his side he is part of the problem. Ngoako Ramatlhodi is part of the problem and we cannot solve the problem with someone who is part of the problem. The full interview can be heard here&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.