Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'I challenge you that the delegate you send to our congress in July be given a mandate to discuss this. You must be bold,' said NzimandeMoody s is the only one of the three big ratings agencies that has not yet announced its outlook'This is surprising. It was believed it would have been millions of years in age''Logic would tell you that you don't want the national security adviser to be in a position where the Russians have leverage over him''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at ChiefsThere's a packed programme of events at The Franschhoek Literary Festival on the weekend of May 19 to 21. Here are the highlightsAnother senior official has left national treasury a spokesperson said on Tuesday.Deputy director general Andrew Donaldson had asked for early retirement said treasury spokesperson Yolisa Tyantsi. His last day was at the end of April."He is approaching 60 this year and he had relinquished his responsibilities (as acting head of the Government Technical Advisory Centre GTAC) in December last year " Tyantsi told TimesLIVE."He wants to pursue academics because he works a lot with academic institutions."Donaldson's departure follows that of director general Lungisa Fuzile who will leave later this month.Fuzile and Donaldson had been with treasury for at least 20 years and were highly respected for steering the fiscus through some trying times. They were also believed to be fierce critics of the government's costly nuclear plans.The Sunday Times reported last year that Donaldson Fuzile and treasury deputy director general Ismail Momoniat were on a list of treasury officials that the Gupta family associates of President Jacob Zuma wanted to get rid of.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.