'It s clear that Gigaba and Brown have committed serious oversight blunders, breaching rules of ethical governance whose behaviour borders on crimes of governance''Former leaders need to step away and go out on a high. The dangers of sticking around under new and substantially different leadership are now laid bare'Standard Chartered Bank's Chief Africa Economist Razia Khan said the "awful" data showed weakness where it was not expectedTiziana Life Sciences wants to mine the data of 13,000 people in an area known for its high proportion of centenarians, for clues about ageing and a range of disordersThe attack in London was horrific but armed officers were on the scene and ending it with astonishing speed'It was clear skies just before I started to mow the lawn. It was about 28 degrees outside so this whirlwind comes through. In a few minutes time it formed a tornado. I couldn t believe it'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...'Bob, always a taxing hill. Although you re aware of the current controversy around this route, a lot of people demanding that the Comrades get routed up and over Polly Graph'Gupta-owned media houses still continue to coin it from the government with the communications department being the latest to confirm splurging almost R1 million at just one breakfast meeting hosted by The New Age.In a written parliamentary response communications minister Ayanda Dlodlo told MPs that her department spent R988 689 on a single business breakfast briefing held on May 26 last year.The breakfast was organised by the Gupta-owned The New Age newspaper in partnership with the SABC.The last TNA business breakfast was held in Bloemfontein last month where they discussed youth development."The entities in the DoC portfolio did not spend on promotional events organised by the newspaper in question since 1 May 2014 " Dlodlo added.The spending happened under Dlodlo's predecessor Faith Muthambi who is now the minister of public service and administration.Reacting to the reply DA spokesperson Phumzile Van Damme said it was no secret that the Gupta-owned newspaper is "propped up" by the millions it receives from government departments and state-owned companies that sponsor its breakfast briefings buy bulk copies of its newspaper and spend "disproportionally" on adverts in the newspaper."Over the last few months it has become patently clear that not only TNA but also ANN7 are nothing more than Gupta and pro-Zuma propaganda mouthpieces surviving on the hard-earned rands of South Africa s taxpayers. It is no longer conscionable to fund this propaganda " said Van Damme.She said recent examples of government department spending on the Guptas was in the Free State where the provincial government under Premier Ace Magashule who has been linked with the Guptas spent more than R4 million on The New Age.In 2015 the communications department spent R10 million on advertising in the same newspaper.Van Damme called for a ban on Gupta-owned media products."We call on South Africans to see all Gupta-media for what it is - Gupta mouthpieces defending the capture of our state. We also call on South Africans to discern the fake Gupta news from real news and caution South Africans that consuming Gupta media risks falling prey to propaganda " said Van Damme.She said this is "direct patronage back to the Guptas in the symbiotic relationship they share with the ANC government".TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.