'We are not going to be threatened and we will get to the bottom of this R5.1-billion that is corruption and we are going to deal with it''Please God we have black people there choose another way of punishing white people ' Esethu Hasane posted'This is about a critical safety matter, with people's lives potentially in danger. We want to get to the bottom of this'The researchers expressed confidence the fossils from northeastern Canada were formed by organisms, saying no non-biological explanation was plausible'Le Pen, the populist, protectionist, anti-immigrant National Front leader, has undergone a remarkable makeover in the last year to improve her electability''I am reminded how much his character angered me. How much he disappointed me. How much he taught me. Then I realise that Troy was my father, who died almost a dozen years ago''The communist Bram Fischer and the arch-conservative Andries Treurnicht were, in different eras, intervarsity participants''There is no typical black person. You will find black people of every political conviction and every religious persuasion'SABC executives got a battering from parliament's standing committee on public accounts yesterday after admitting that poor vetting of procurement officials had contributed to the broadcaster losing R5.1-billion because of irregular and wasteful expenditure.The Scopa committee proposed that the Hawks investigate the affairs of the public broadcaster but its acting CEO, James Aguma, said he would prefer that the corporation's own investigators be given the job, with a deadline of May 31.&ldquo;If fraud is found this will, of course, be handed over to the police&sbquo;&rdquo; Aguma said.MP Mnyamezeli Booi laid into Aguma about a section of the SABC s annual report that dealt with a skills-enhancement programme for supply-chain-management employees. There hasn't been good assessment of the people you are employing. Some of them have criminal records, and some don't have certificates, he said.He warned Aguma that Scopa would not be intimidated. You have got a record in the SABC that when you are being interrogated you threaten people. When people talk about your institution they disappear. We are not going to be threatened and we will get to the bottom of this R5.1-billion that is corruption and we are going to deal with it, Booi said.Responding to Booi's assertion that the SABC employed people with criminal records, Aguma conceded: One of the weaknesses we picked up is that they have not even been vetted as required by the Public Financial Management Act ... that is one area of concern. Booi later accused Aguma of lying to the committee. You are misleading us. You are lying to us, he said.The SABC group reported a loss of R411-million for the year to the end of March 2016. It lost R131-million in the previous year. It spent about R3.2-billion on salaries.Scopa chairman Themba Godi said he wanted to see the SABC in a better position.He chastised the executives for the late release of the corporation s annual report on Tuesday night at the 11th hour . Former chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng earned R4.1-million a year, according to the report.The R5.1-billion in irregular expenditure included R40.9-million on non-contractual payments, R16.2-million on payments in respect of which procurement processes were not followed, R142-million on payments in respect of which there was no tax certificate, and R225-million attributable to inadequate monitoring of contract adherence.- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.