Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'I challenge you that the delegate you send to our congress in July be given a mandate to discuss this. You must be bold,' said NzimandeMoody s is the only one of the three big ratings agencies that has not yet announced its outlook'This is surprising. It was believed it would have been millions of years in age''Logic would tell you that you don't want the national security adviser to be in a position where the Russians have leverage over him''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at ChiefsThere's a packed programme of events at The Franschhoek Literary Festival on the weekend of May 19 to 21. Here are the highlightsBy&nbsp;Neo Goba Taschica Pillay And Shenaaz JamalService delivery protests caused havoc in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng on Monday as residents demanded access to housing.In Durban mayor Zandile Gumede was forced to send a team to meet informal settlement residents who set fire to a school and blockaded roads.Residents of Banana City the informal settlement on Varsity Drive in Reservoir Hills were protesting after their requests for housing went unanswered.They demanded that Gumede address them.On Sunday night two classrooms at Hillview Primary School on Varsity Drive in Reservoir Hills were set alight forcing the school to close.On Monday morning several roads in the area were closed as informal dwellers burned rubbish and threw stones.Mayoral spokesman Mthunzi Gumede said the mayor was out of the country on council business but has delegated a team to meet the community. She [the mayor] will be able to respond swiftly once advised by the team. Jabulo Motsotsi a resident of Banana City said: We have been promised housing since 2010. People keep getting bluffed that houses will be built within 10 months but nothing happens.Politicians make promises for our vote but don t deliver. We are sick and tired [of it] Motsotsi said.In Gauteng violent protests broke out in the south of Johannesburg over land invasions and evictions. Protesters blocked roads heavily affecting traffic on the N12 Golden Highway N1 and Union Road. Police had to use rubber bullets to disperse residents who barricaded roads in Lenasia Eldorado Park Ennerdale and Freedom Park.Mayoral Management Committee member for housing in Johannesburg Mzobanzi Ntuli said protests began after evictions on Sunday in Eldorado Park. Protesters blame the administration for failing to provide them with houses.Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane pleaded with government officials to take responsibility for their actions. I think we need to realise as leaders that when we make promises to communities we need to honour those promises. &nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.