The office of the district public prosecutor has recommended that Elvis Ramosebudi the man accused of plotting a coup by mass assassination undergo mental evaluation'With urban approval ratings for President Zuma at an all-time low, the President and his faction are running out of political oxygen''The judge was unequivocal that by slipping the Russian agreement through parliament as a routine matter for noting, the former Energy Minister Joemat-Petterssen had committed a gross error'Scientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't know'Trump s shifting moods have produced several notable flip-flops. Most prominent has been that on Russia, in part because he praised President Vladimir Putin again and again from mid-2013 to February ...The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsMuntari said he had complained that parts of the crowd, including a group of children, had hurled racist insults at him from the start of his Italian team's game at Cagliari in Serie A on SundayIf anyone was still uncertain that Elvis was up to no good, a hit list was soon circulated online, helpfully headed with the words: This are the beneficiaries of the State Capture regime, who are to ...WHEN I heard about the Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance, I was quite upset. I know you felt it too. And how could you not? That hyphen! What the hell? I mean, is this a Death Squad Alliance that is opposed to state capture, or is this a Capture Death Squad Alliance that is anti-state and, if so, what is a Capture Death Squad Alliance? It s a nightmare, people. We have several subscription options to help you enjoy the best of our content every day, including exclusive Financial Times articles, Morningstar financial data and full digital access to The Wall Street Journal. Already subscribed? Simply sign in below. Questions or problems? Email helpdesk@businesslive.co.za or call 0860&nbsp;52&nbsp;52&nbsp;00. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.