'Jennifer was a vibrant force for good and as a former chairperson of the De Beers Fund she inspired us and touched the lives of thousands of people''We have nothing against Brian personally. We are against wrong things''One would have to be extremely biased against Eskom to even remotely consider these allegations to be true given their ridiculous nature'Zuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'The issue is being addressed with China through appropriate diplomatic and military channels'The earrings, known as the Apollo Blue and the Artemis Pink, were bought by the same buyer, who wants to remain anonymous'It s just crazy. But to do it with a club of this size and magnitude I think it's a great achievement'I was startled by how many men came on the air pleading with women to cover themselves up, to avoid provocation because men will be men . Really?SA Communist Party general secretary Blade Nzimande said on Friday that Brian Molefe s return to Eskom was perverse. That s perverse. We can t allow perversion Who will suffer in the end? It s the ANC Nzimande said at a conference hosted by the SACP. We have nothing against Brian personally. We are against wrong things. Molefe returned to Eskom after a brief stint as a member of parliament where he had allegedly been installed in order to replace Pravin Gordhan as finance minister.But reports have suggested that ANC and SACP leaders rejected President Jacob Zuma s attempt to have Molefe take over from Gordhan in a recent cabinet reshuffle.Molefe had stepped down as Eskom chief executive in November after he was implicated in state capture allegations by former public protector Thuli Madonsela saying that he was leaving in the interests of good corporate governance and to clear his name.Molefe this week resumed his post as Eskom boss after resigning from parliament.The move has been widely criticised including by the ANC.Nzimande said private interests were corrupting and factionalising the ruling party. Something like an alien substance has found its way into our movement this includes the rise of private interests this is our immediate enemy he said at the SACP Imbizo in Boksburg. Part of radical economic transformation must be to defeat these parasitic networks that are eating our state. You can t separate the two. He also dismissed those who said the SACP had no right to comment on problems in the ruling party. We are told we musn t talk about the ANC These princes who get sworn into parliament and after a few months they go back to Eskom. &nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.