University takes the unusual step of issuing strong public statement on perilous state of the nation'The crisis and those who have created it reaches deep into the very fabric of our society and is based on an unquenchable need for power and money''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shift'Our revolutionary strong army is keenly watching every move by enemy elements with our nuclear sight focused on the U.S. invasionary bases not only in South Korea and the Pacific operation theatre ...The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitors'I did think about, am I ever going to win one?" admitted Garcia. "I've had so many good chances and either I lost them or someone has done something extraordinary to beat me''If, like me, you think that democracy is worth maintaining, then showing up is literally the least you can do'Former president Thabo Mbeki has urged MPs to put the country first when they vote on a motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma The Star newspaper reported on Tuesday.Parliament is due to debate the motion in a week after calls from opposition parties for Zuma to step down.Mbeki said the Constitutional Court had outlined the role of MPs in its Nkandla judgment which criticised parliament for not holding Zuma to account by failing to implement the findings of the public protector. In this context consistent with its Constitutional mandate among others the Constitutional Court explained the place role and tasks of our MPs and therefore the National Legislature strictly as defined by our constitution Mbeki said in an online version of The Star article.Mbeki said that MPs must act as the voice of the people not the voice of the political parties to which they belong the article said. It may be that the current controversy has at last imposed on our country the opportunity and obligation the better to define the constitutional and moral relationship between the people and their elected representatives. - TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.