'We are not going to be threatened and we will get to the bottom of this R5.1-billion that is corruption and we are going to deal with it''Please God we have black people there choose another way of punishing white people ' Esethu Hasane posted'This is about a critical safety matter, with people's lives potentially in danger. We want to get to the bottom of this'The researchers expressed confidence the fossils from northeastern Canada were formed by organisms, saying no non-biological explanation was plausible'Le Pen, the populist, protectionist, anti-immigrant National Front leader, has undergone a remarkable makeover in the last year to improve her electability''I am reminded how much his character angered me. How much he disappointed me. How much he taught me. Then I realise that Troy was my father, who died almost a dozen years ago''The communist Bram Fischer and the arch-conservative Andries Treurnicht were, in different eras, intervarsity participants''There is no typical black person. You will find black people of every political conviction and every religious persuasion'Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has distanced the ANC from remarks made by Progressive Professionals Forum president Mzwanele &ldquo;Jimmy&rdquo; Manyi&sbquo; to the effect that the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment (Fica) Bill will &ldquo;bankrupt&rdquo; the ruling party.The Fica, or money-laundering bill was unanimously adopted by the National Assembly on Tuesday after being referred back to parliament by President Jacob Zuma. But opposition MPs still grilled Ramaphosa about the legislation and Manyi's submission. During public hearings on the bill earlier this year Manyi said the legislation was an attempt to bankrupt the ANC before the next national elections in 2019.He said the bill would be used by detractors to embarrass and blacklist ANC donors so when we get to 2019 the ANC is as broke as hell .The EFF s Floyd Shivambu said Manyi's comments implied that the ANC benefited from a lack of legislation to combat money-laundering and financing of terrorist activities .Ramaphosa said he didn't know what Manyi was talking about. The legislation will significantly strengthen our ability to track money-laundering and money used to fund terrorism. The ANC does not rely on money filtered into the country by means of money-laundering or financing of terrorist activities. &nbsp;- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.