Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'I believe the board s proposal ultimately represents a significantly better value proposition to the South African fiscus than the previous proposal''The ANC condemns the unfortunate and reckless decision taken by the Board of Directors of Eskom to reinstate Brian Molefe as Chief Executive Officer'Zuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'The president talks and talks without showing any mastery - any understanding - of anything''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'The Springboks were drawn with world champions New Zealand in Pool B for Rugby World Cup 2019 at a ceremony in Kyoto on Wednesday'I walk into this quiet, meditative space and light candles for my dead mother and father and brother Shaun. Sunlight streams through the stained glass windows'Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says the renewal of the ANC must begin in the Northern Cape.Delivering a keynote address at the party's provincial elective congress under way in Colesberg Ramaphosa said the three-day gathering where the new provincial leadership was due to be elected should trigger the revival of the ANC in the province.The ANC provincial chairmanship is vacant after John Block who had occupied that position for more than a decade was forced to step down after being convicted of fraud and corruption related to government tenders.Outgoing provincial Secretary Zamani Saul is the frontrunner to replace Block but he is being challenged by Premier Sylvia Lucas who sent shockwaves this week with a controversial provincial cabinet reshuffle on the eve of this conference in what has been described as purge of those who do not support her.Ramaphosa said conference was an opportunity for the Northern Cape ANC to cleanse itself and root out disunity among its ranks. "We must renew and rebuild and that process must begin here in the Northern Cape."As we gather here in cold Colesberg we must admit that this great church (ANC) is in danger. Where once there was unity we now find disunity in this church."There are some people who say we don't have to go through this painful process. Comrades we have to go through this process. We should do so with our eyes on 2019; how we can win in 2019 " he said. This send delegates into a frenzy who shouted "yes yes yes ..." while others chanted CR17 - a moniker given to Ramaphosa's unofficial bid for the ANC presidency ahead of the national elective conference scheduled for December 2017.The ANC presidential hopeful insisted that the ANC was not yet beyond repair."We are far from ruin. We are far from total disintegration. But we must trace back to find out how we got to where we are."Ramaphosa also spoke out against corruption within State Owned Companies.While he did not mention the Gupta family by name he said the ANC's push for radical economic transformation was not for the benefit of a select few or any particular family.The deputy president told ANC members that the party did not need arrogant leaders who don't listen to the people.&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.