'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane has confirmed three arrests in relation to the break-in at the Office of the Chief Justice on Saturday.&ldquo;They will face charges for other crimes they are possibly linked to pending further investigation in this matter&sbquo;&rdquo; Phahlane told journalists in Pretoria on Wednesday.The men would appear in court in Mamelodi&sbquo; Phahlane said.&ldquo;The multi-disciplinary team led by Deputy Provincial Commissioner of Crime Detection in Gauteng Major General Mary Motsepe has been hard at work and their efforts culminated in the arrest of three men in Mamelodi over the past few days&sbquo;&rdquo; Phahlane said. The team followed leads and information that resulted in operations being conducted on identified addresses in Mamelodi in search of the stolen equipment and perpetrators. Phahlane said that during the search of the identified premises three men were arrested to enable further investigation into the matter .Various items including illegal firearms and fake identity documents were seized. These items are considered evidential material and will be presented in court. We are also pleased to report that a vehicle possibly used as a getaway car during the commission of the crime has been seized. Phahlane said during further interviews of those arrested revealed the identity of a person with critical information required to solve the crime and the recovery of the stolen IT equipment. The SAPS is calling upon Nkosinathi Msimango who was in the vicinity of Mamelodi on the day of the arrests and who has valuable info and insight into the commission of this crime to approach the investigating officer or to report to the nearest police station. The three suspects arrested are expected to appear in court in Mamelodi today where they will face charges for other crimes they are possibly linked to pending further investigation in this matter Phahlane said. We believe the seriousness of this crime and the stature of the Office of the Chief Justice will be considered in the further processing of cases the apprehended people are linked to he continued.&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.