'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'Damned if they do and damned if they don&rsquo;t. This is the position many feel the Constitutional Court finds itself in after the social grants crisis was abandoned on its doorstep.Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) has emerged as the only likely party that will be able to continue the payment of SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) grants after April 1.The matter appeared before the country&rsquo;s top court on Wednesday in a marathon session. The court heard submissions from lawyers representing&sbquo; among others&sbquo; CPS&sbquo; Sassa and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini&sbquo; the South African Post Office&sbquo; as well as civil rights organisations Corruption Watch and Black Sash.A ruling is due at 10am on Friday. RDM&nbsp;will bring you the news as it unfolds. In a sense the court is backed into a corner at this stage said University of KwaZulu-Natal constitutional law expert Professor Warren Freedman. I know the Post Office came along but it seems to me the only option is really for CPS to continue paying out the grants at least in the short term. On the other hand I think that there is a way out for the Constitutional Court he continued. In its earlier All Pay judgment [the court] said that CPS is essentially implementing a government service which means it s not in the same sort of position as an ordinary private company or contract. In fact it is now under an obligation to fulfil those constitutional rights. Freedman said he felt it likely the court would order CPS to continue the grants payments but that the exact terms would only be ironed out at a later stage. There is no doubt that CPS will have to carry on implementing the payments but I think the court is not bound to simply say that they have to agree to any contract CPS puts forward or any kind of agreement they might have reached with the department Freedman said. I don t think that that means CPS has a free hand on how it s going to do it or what it s going to get paid or how it s going to implement that. I think you are going to see the court making quite creative and interesting decisions on the exact terms. Professor Geo Quinot of Stellenbosch University told TimesLIVE there was a possibility the court would allow a contract with CPS to be put in place on April 1 without necessarily condoning an unlawful conduct. That option of the court having to condone something that they have already said is unlawful would only be the result if you conclude that what is going on now is an extension of the current contract as opposed to a completely new contract Quinot said. There is no doubt in my mind that Sassa and the department could enter into a lawful new contract with CPS should they get the necessary approvals under the Public Finance Management Act. Quinot said the Constitutional Court found itself in a difficult position given the time constraints. The position is more difficult undoubtedly because it s urgent But really we are asking: where do we go from here? We are dealing with a state party that made certain representations telling you how they are going to resolve it which they didn t do. I wouldn t say they are in an impossible position it just calls for a different resolution from the past. One could probably expect a more stringent supervisory role for the court. That would be my guess Quinot said.- TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.