'Sapo is capable of delivering a robust interim solution in 3 - 6 months covering current services delivered by Cash Paymaster Service''If you want to do anything with that tender go back to the Constitutional Court'MPs gasped audibly when it became clear that no-one was being held accountable for the loss'This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet''It is pretty clear the Egyptians are facilitating Russian engagement in Libya by allowing them to use these bases. There are supposedly training exercises taking place there at present''I micro-analysed every aspect of the process from temperature to humidity water activity and air movement''Any loss of money is regrettable. Don't take it that R118 million lost means nothing; it means a lot. We went out of our way to secure the games - but not at all costs''It is a place of infinite suffering and utter despair, echoing with the wailing of the damned'MPs have given the embattled state-owned petroleum firm&sbquo; PetroSA&sbquo; two weeks to come with a plan to save the company from bankruptcy.ANC MP and chairman of the portfolio committee on energy&sbquo; Fikile Majola&sbquo; yesterday lashed out at executives from the troubled energy utility and ordered them to return to parliament in a fortnight with detailed and practical plan to return PetroSA to the black.Majola said the company which has been struggling to recover from its financial woes since it reported a R15-billion loss in 2016 said the company could no longer be allowed to continue to waste taxpayer's money.He questioned whether PetroSA could still continue existing as a going concern.MPs also expressed unhappiness about PetroSA senior executives pocketing bonuses of up to R2 4 million each while it was bleeding money and had retrenched more than 200 workers.Majola called for energy minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson to be more transparent about the financial status of PetroSA.IFP MP Essie Esterhuizen called for the huge bonuses to be paid back.Petro SA has consistently claimed that the bonuses had not been company performance based but were paid as part of its skills rentention scheme.MPs gasped audibly when it became clear that no-one was being held accountable for the loss of more than R15 billion."Are we being told that more than R15 billion is being lost and there are two golden handshakes and one person being moved to a different position?" asked DA MP Gordon Mackay.He also claimed PetroSA was hiding information - that it was providing a sanitised version of events and dodging questions.Mackay pointed out that the PetroSA board had previously misled the portfolio committee on the true reasons for the R15 billion loss blaming everything but their own incompetence and dysfunctionality which now proves to be the reason for the huge mess. - TMG Digital/The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.