A more than 365 year history of&nbsp;colonialism&nbsp;and&nbsp;apartheid&nbsp;have indelibly affected land, heritage and human rights in South Africa.Among the vast array of discriminatory laws was the&nbsp;Land Act of 1913that spatially segregated people through land dispossession. It amplified the vast canyon of inequality, further shattered the social fabric of&nbsp;communities&nbsp;and radically compromised economic development of the black majority.It was only after the&nbsp;1994 democratic elections&nbsp;that the vast majority of citizens could hope for constitutional restitution of their land.Significant socio-economic advances have been made&nbsp;since 1994, but several challenges need to be overcome as indicated by&nbsp;recent trends. Much more needs to be done. This is particularly true when it comes to land distribution and restitution.The 2013 state&nbsp;land audit report&nbsp;illustrates why. By 1994 about 87% of the land was owned by whites and only 13% by black people. By 2012 only 7.95 million hectares had been transferred to black owners through land reform. This represented only 7.5% of&nbsp;formerly white-owned land.Land reform was discussed with understandable intensity during the recent&nbsp;National Policy Conference&nbsp;of the governing African National Congress. Debates centred on whether land should be&nbsp;expropriated without compensation.It s within this context that a&nbsp;National Forum&nbsp;was established for dialogues on land reform. The National Forum is made up of a network of organisations that includes three universities, the&nbsp;South African Human Rights Commission&nbsp;and&nbsp;Foundation for Human Rights.The National Forum focused on whether it was possible to achieve effective land reform through&nbsp;Section 25 of the South African Constitution, which deals with property rights. The National Forum also examined the bureaucratic, legal and constitutional constraints that slow down land redistribution and restitution. It also explored the policy and legislative options necessary to address the complex challenges.The National Forum concluded that South Africa s constitution doesn t stand in the way of land reform. However, it s clear that&nbsp;political negligence&nbsp;has fuelled undue bureaucracy, mismanagement and corruption, which have severely hampered meaningful land reform. It reached consensus on a 10-point plan for constitutionally accelerated land reform. The hope is that it can help break the long-standing impasse over land, and move the country toward radically inclusive socio-economic growth.Accelerating land reformAspects of the 10-point plan include:The National Forum envisions the 10-point plan being effected within the context of the country s&nbsp;National Development Plan s Vision 2030. The plan was drawn up to provide a roadmap for the country to 2030. Its central aims are to reduce unemployment, poverty and inequality.If land reform is realised, South Africa could present a more humane, just, peaceful, prosperous and democratic face to the world.The Conversation Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month.