'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio''Fear is a far more persuasive emotion than power, greed or fame'Political risk, Eskom, Sanral and SAA mentioned as key factors undermining confidenceCameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio'President Jacob Zuma has acknowledged disagreements that have followed his controversial cabinet changes saying that the squabbles were demoralising.But Zuma dodged tough questions from journalists about a ratings downgrade by Standard &amp; Poor's which raised concerns about last week s cabinet reshuffle.Zuma s bodyguards strong-armed reporters and pushed them away from the president in Pretoria on Tuesday.Zuma was speaking at the official launch of Africa s first locally designed locomotive at Transnet s engineering yard.South Africa s foreign currency debt was downgraded by Standard and Poor s rating agency yesterday to junk status effectively making it harder for government to borrow money.Zuma thanked former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas for their hard work and their contribution to a smooth handover to their replacements.He fired the two last week and replaced Gordhan with former home affairs minister Malusi Gigaba and Sifiso Buthulezi as deputy finance minister.Their firing and the reshuffle of Zuma s cabinet has led to public outrage including the ANC top six.Zuma said: For over a decade South Africa has grappled with the global economic downturn. We must work hard to promote economic trade among African countries and boost economic development. He said he expected the changes to his administration to add renewed energy into cabinet and the executive as a whole . We are proud of having added many young ministers which is an investment in the future. If we don t enable young MPs to gain experience now we may battle with experience at a later stage in the national executive. Zuma praised Gordhan s work in treasury and said that Gigaba would continue on the same path.This after leaders in the ANC and its alliance partners criticised Zuma for axing Gordhan and Mcebisi which they said was based on a dubious intelligence report that accused Gordhan and Mcebisi of plotting with international backers to overthrow the government. While political leadership has changed government policy has not. Government will remain committed to a measured fiscal policy which stabilises the rise in public debt said Zuma.He assured the country that there was unity in the treasury and financial portfolios. A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio. Zuma said more important than ever was that the country unite and work together especially in light of the current socio-economic challenges we face .He assured the private sector and international community that they would continue to work with the country s partners. We will reach out to the international community to assure them that South Africa is stable. We assure South Africans government will do everything to promote cohesion. We know that there have been public statements on disagreements which have demoralised people. There are serious weaknesses which we will attend to with renewed vigour. - TMG Digital. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.