MPs earn an annual salary of R1 033 438 a year. Sixty percent of the total package is pensionable according to the latest Government Gazette detailing remuneration for members of ParliamentMadonsela recommended that Zuma should institute a commission of inquiry to be headed by a judge selected solely by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to further probe state capture allegations'Bring the investigation. We will love it. We want to clear our names. We don t want to be so tarnished as we are. Bring on the investigations. I m very happy the minister has ordered the SIU to come ..."Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Public enterprises Lynne Brown has directed the board of Eskom to rescind its decision to reinstate Brian Molefe as CEO.This comes after the inter-ministerial committee set up to investigate his reinstatement to the position recommended that the appointment be rescinded.Brown and chair of the IMC Minister Michael Masutha made the announcement in Parliament on Wednesday.Brown said it was up to the Eskom board to inform Molefe and as soon as that had been done he would officially no longer hold the position.Brown said she had met with the board this morning and had directed them to give her two names for potential candidates to act as CEO. She said an acting CEO would be appointed in 48 hours.Molefe stepped down as CEO last year following the release of the Public Protector's State of Capture report.He was sworn in as an ANC MP shortly thereafter.However when he returned Eskom claimed he had erroneously taken early retirement and upon realising their mistake had rescinded his early retirement.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.