This comes after calls from Cosatu affiliates for Dlamini to either back Ramaphosa or back down as the federation s presidentThe ruling party would do the country a favour by bringing its presidency and that of the state into alignment, writes Roger Southall'Bring the investigation. We will love it. We want to clear our names. We don t want to be so tarnished as we are. Bring on the investigations. I m very happy the minister has ordered the SIU to come ..."Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?There should be a broader inquiry into state capture by the business community so that the facts on the issue are established President Jacob Zuma said on Thursday.Responding to matters raised during the presidency budget vote debate in the National Assembly Zuma said the issue of state capture was a big thing . There should be an inquiry into state capture by the business community. State capture is now big thing. We now all agree we need to do it [the inquiry] and cannot pick and choose said Zuma. That will help us because we are going to stop depending on rumours and allegations but we will depend on facts so that people do not pile allegation after allegation the President said.A collection of email correspondence between the Gupta family and their associates including cabinet ministers and Zuma s son Duduzane have revealed how the Guptas have been influencing government operations in recent months.The state capture allegations have led to renewed calls for Zuma to step down.This week the ANC backed the establishment of a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture but said it should go beyond the findings of the Public Protector and investigate the extent of business influence on the state from 1994.Zuma said during Wednesday s debate that what had delayed the establishment of the inquiry into state capture was the manner in which former public protector Thuli Madonsela directed how the inquiry should be carried out.Madonsela explicitly recommended that the chief justice appoint a judge to oversee the commission as Zuma was implicated in the matter.Late last year the President asked the High Court in Pretoria to review and set aside the remedial action recommendations contained in Madonsela s swansong State of Capture report.The main opposition parties the DA and the EFF boycotted Thursday s session as they continue to push for his removal. The EFF has officially taken a stance not to listen to Zuma speak as it does not recognise him as president of the country.Last year opposition parties also boycotted Zuma s reply to the budget vote debate calling for his removal from office following a damning Constitutional Court ruling that found the President had failed to uphold the Constitution.TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.