Leaked e-mails show that Duduzane purchased the property with substantial assistance from the Guptas and their associates at the end of 2015Naithani who flies into South Africa from India for board meetings even informed the Guptas about his interactions with SAA chairwoman Dudu Myeni the emails show"Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount''We had to focus. Manchester - we won for them. We played for England, we played for Manchester and we played for them -- the people who died'What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Some 62% of ANC voters&nbsp;polled by Ipsos disapprove of President Jacob Zuma while only 18% support him, suggesting that his continued presidency is exacting a heavy price on the party's electability.The poll, done in conjunction with eNCA, surveyed 3 500 adults between 21 April and 22 May this year.eNCA reported: "Zuma's current approval rating is the lowest score ever for any of the country's democratically elected presidents."The poll suggests that Zuma's support is in a tailspin after he showed he had the backing of 54% of ANC voters in December 2016.Some 65% of voters said Zuma should resign.The poll came as mounting evidence of Zuma's involvement in 'state capture' entered the public domain, causing senior ANC figures to distance themselves from him. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.