Their paths to power may be dramtically different, but the two men are surprisingly alikeOur venal politicians have evoked an anguish I have only felt once before, writes Charmain NaidooHerman Kotze says the biggest portion of his predecessor s severance package relates to shares he owned in the company"Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter accountMusk says he did all he could do to convince Trump to stay in the Paris climate accord'The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Police Minister Fikile Mbalula on Wednesday thanked President Jacob Zuma for his wisdom in deciding to remove Acting National Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Kgomotso Phahlane adding that he had informed Zuma that Phahlane s presence tarnished the SA Police Service. ... I informed His Excellency President Jacob Zuma that the General s continued holding of office negatively impacts on the Ministry and department for which I am responsible Mbalula said in a lengthy statement.Phahlane was the subject of investigation by police watchdog the Independent Police Investigative Directorate into allegations of money laundering defeating the ends of justice and racketeering.Mbalula said the serious allegations of misconduct impacted on his fitness to hold office. The allegations against Lt-Gen Phahlane raise questions of conduct that would be inconsistent with expectations that attend those who hold leadership in our police service the South African Police Service said Mbalula. I am duty bound to make it clear that Lt-Gen Phahlane has a right to be presumed innocent until proven otherwise. The allegations levelled are yet to be tested in a court of law. Mbalula suggested removing Phahlane was in the interest of justice. There clearly are accepted perception discomforts with regards to a perceived interference risk which leads itself to potential national security risk should IPID be impeded in doing their constitutional duty lawfully by anyone said Mbalula. It is my belief that Lt-Gen Phahlane and the rule of law would be better served if the Lt-Gen is afforded adequate time and personal freedom to focus on these personal allegations against him without the added burdens of the office of the Acting National Police Commissioner. Phahlane has since been redeployed back to his position of Forensic Services Divisional Commissioner but this too could be temporary. Accordingly Lt-Gen Phahlane has been requested by myself to furnish me with cogent and reasonable reasons why I should not suspend him from his position as Forensic Services Divisional Commissioner with immediate effect said Mbalula.Meanwhile Lieutenant-General Lesetja Mothiba has replaced Phahlane a move welcomed by the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union.Spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said Popcru had placed all hope in Mothiba restoring the integrity of the office of the police commissioner adding that the union had felt that the SA Police Service had been compromised under Phahlane s leadership.In nine days however the tenure of current National Police Commissioner Riah Phiyega who is currently on suspension comes to an end.It remains to be seen whether Mothiba will be appointed to fill Phiyega s shoes.TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.