'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane on Monday brushed aside conspiracy theories about the theft of computers containing sensitive personal information from the office of the Chief Justice.Fifteen computers&sbquo; some containing sensitive information about the country&rsquo;s 250 judges&sbquo; were stolen from the human resources section of the office in Midrand&sbquo; Johannesburg&sbquo; on Saturday.Phahlane&sbquo; speaking on Talk Radio 702 &nbsp;said police would ignore baseless&sbquo; unfounded allegations about the burglary and focus on establishing who had entered the offices&sbquo; what they knew about the security system and what was taken. Our (mandate) is not to focus on rumours ours is to investigate a crime he said.Opposition political parties and the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (CASAC) said the burglary was highly suspicious likening it to the Watergate scandal which led to the fall of US president Richard Nixon.CASAC s executive secretary Lawson Naidoo said This incident may mark a crucial turning point in our constitutional democracy. It is a potential Watergate moment in which the independence of the judiciary is not just undermined but brazenly challenged. We must act to guard its independence which is key to ensuring our democracy is protected and sustained. The Watergate scandal which unfolded in the 1970s saw burglars break into the Democratic national committee headquarters. Their arrest exposed a political dirty tricks campaign.DA chief whip John Steenhuisen tweeted that his money was on State Security Minister David Mahlobo having a hand in the matter which was quickly shot down as a wild allegation by the ANC.CASAC said it was imperative that the investigation was speedy thorough and free of political interference. Given the doubts and uncertainties over the independence and integrity of the SA Police Service and the Hawks it will be necessary to have independent oversight over this investigation. An appropriate mechanism to ensure that there is public confidence in the investigation must be put in place said CASAC.The State Security Agency has rejected claims about its involvement in the burglary. We note with serious concern the baseless accusations made by some insinuating our involvement in #ChiefJusticeOfficeBreakin it said in a series of tweets.We note with serious concern the baseless accusations made by some insinuating our involvement in #ChiefJusticeOfficeBreakin . 1/4-&nbsp;TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.