From crying crocodile tears to becoming a member of Parliament, here is a timeline dating Eskom CEO Brian Molefe s activity since the state of capture report was releasedPolitical analyst Protas Madlala said the ANC s humiliating defeat was a "serious indictment that should get the party worried"'A flight from a reserve currency would throw the global trading system into disarray'"Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'It was a huge explosion - you could feel it in your chest. It was chaotic. Everybody was running and screaming and just trying to get out''Oh my god. Trump has obtained the Bajoran Orb of Time''We had to focus. Manchester - we won for them. We played for England, we played for Manchester and we played for them -- the people who died'What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) claimed early successes in Nquthu with reports of a landslide victory in a number of voting districts after by-elections at the dissolved northern KwaZulu-Natal municipality.So overwhelming was the IFP's clean sweep that many ANC members started to concede defeat on social media.SABC radio reported that the IFP had won 14 of the 17 wards after Wednesday's poll.The Independent Electoral Commission is scheduled to announce the official results at 10am while the provincial department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs is expected to announce unofficial results a bit earlier.A win by the IFP would signal a comeback for the party which lost the municipality in 2011 at the hands of a fractious ANC/NFP coalition.While there was a nervous wait for the official results the IFP looked set to control the uMzinyathi District Municipality.This is a developing story.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.