The office of the district public prosecutor has recommended that Elvis Ramosebudi the man accused of plotting a coup by mass assassination undergo mental evaluation'In a country where there is no democracy there will be an angry president charging the police to arrest people but democracy says let the people expresses themselves'On 28 April, CNN's Christiane Amanpour interviewed former finance minister, Pravinn Gordhan. Here is the interview in fullScientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't know'Trump s shifting moods have produced several notable flip-flops. Most prominent has been that on Russia, in part because he praised President Vladimir Putin again and again from mid-2013 to February ...Customers willing to shell out up to 950,000 yen ($8,500) per person can enjoy a top-of-the-range suite aboard the Shiki-Shima for four daysHis unstoppable strike from the edge of the box doubled Madrid s lead and he completed his hat-trick shortly before the endIf anyone was still uncertain that Elvis was up to no good, a hit list was soon circulated online, helpfully headed with the words: This are the beneficiaries of the State Capture regime, who are to ...Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was told by leaders of the Shembe Nazareth Baptist Church to stop beating about the bush and openly contest the presidency of the ANC.Ramaphosa was in Empangeni, on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast, yesterday at the invitation of Prophet Unyazilwezulu Shembe.He joined thousands of Shembe in a three-hour church service to celebrate the church s founding leader, Prophet Isaiah Shembe.Ramaphosa said he did not come to the church to ask it to back his presidential bid.He said the ANC government was in need of prayers because it was languishing under a dark cloud. Some of you might have seen on TV yesterday when the president was prevented from speaking. Something shows you that things are not right in the party and government. Please pray for us. I didn't come here for anything else or position. I came here for two things: to learn about Inkosi Shembe and to ask for you to pray for the ANC and the government Ramaphosa said.This did not go down well with some church leaders.Ramaphosa was confronted by pastors including senior pastor Mthandeni Ntombela, who led the charge. You must talk straight and tell the inkosi you are here to ask for the position of president of the ANC Ntombela said. Don't beat about the bush. [President Jacob] Zuma also came here and asked to be made president and for his criminal cases to go away. You were elected deputy president and you should be one said Ntombela.Ramaphosa, clearly embarrassed in front of a media contingent, laughed in response.Ntombela said Zuma had come there but had since forgotten to come back to thank the Lord hence his recent woes . You will be the [ANC] president whether they like it or not. This is your ANC. If you are not direct and don't ask for what you want, you will not get it, Ntombela said. The Prince of Phindangene [IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi] came here and he made a mistake he prayed for peace and said May the best man win . He didn t say: Father, I want to win' and he never governed. He would be in charge today. Ntombela said that if Ramaphosa did not speak up he would suffer the same fate as former premier Senzo Mchunu.Mchunu was recalled by the ANC in May 2016 following his loss of the provincial party leadership to Sihle Zikalala in November 2015.Ramaphosa was invited to return to the church on July 4 for another conference. You must come back and ask directly and don't be shy, for whatever you ask for in our midst will be granted to you said Ntombela.- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.