By JAN BORNMAN, ARON HYMAN, ERNEST MABUZA and PHILANI NOMBEMBE NET1 boss Serge Belamant, whose company, Cash Paymaster Services, is at the centre of the pension grants crisis, has come out fighting. ...'People are lobbying, there s no doubt. Lobby groups are all over the country, big ones, small ones, bold ones, all of that is happening''Not raising the retirement age will have serious ramifications for the majority of lower-income South Africans who don t have a private pension fund''In a test for reporters, one bus cruised a block-long circuit so consistently that it created a dirt track on the tarmac'Some of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in TokyoThe green sea turtle had been finding it hard to swim normally because of the weightSA now has a 24-point lead over Fiji at the halfway mark of the season and have built a solid foundation to claim their first overall title since 2009'I saw the artist glaring at us, despising our spineless decision to come to see his work, hating our approving nods. I understood his anger'A pair of $250,000 autonomous buses began driving around an empty San Francisco Bay Area parking lot on Monday, preparing to move onto a local public road in California's first pilot program for a self-driving vehicle without steering wheel or human operator.California and other states are weighing the opportunities of becoming a hub of testing a technology that is seen as the future of transportation and the risks from giving up active control of a large, potentially dangerous vehicle.In most tests of self-driving cars there is still a person seated at the steering wheel, ready to take over, although Alphabet Inc's Waymo tested a car with no steering wheel or pedals in Austin, Texas, as early as 2015.The bus project in San Ramon, at the Bishop Ranch office park complex, involves two 12-passenger shuttle buses from French private company EasyMile.The project is backed by a combination of private companies and public transit and air quality authorities, with the intention of turning it into a permanent, expanded operation, said Habib Shamskhou, a program manager who strolled in front of a moving bus to show that the vehicle would notice him and react. It stopped.In a test for reporters, one bus cruised a block-long circuit so consistently that it created a dirt track on the tarmac.California legislators late last year passed a law to allow slow-speed testing of fully autonomous vehicles without steering wheels or pedals on public roads, with the Bishop Ranch test in mind.The shuttle buses will test for a few months in the parking lots before operators apply for Department of Motor Vehicles approval under the new law. The vehicles are expected to swing onto the local street late this year or early in 2018.- Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.