Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decisionZuma on Thursday filed an affidavit opposing the UDM's application saying that voting by way of an open ballot vote is not unconstitutional'When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftNone of the military options for North Korea are good, and most risk sparking the conflict everyone wants to avoid possibly while leaving the country s nuclear program intactThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'The sad and scary truth is that in this part of the continent we turn on our white brothers and sisters when we are unable to change the lot of the poorest among us'President Jacob Zuma and Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete have both filed answering papers in the United Democratic Movement's (UDM) secret ballot Constitutional Court application.The UDM is seeking the use of a secret ballot in the pending motion of no confidence against the president and has approached the court directly.Zuma on Thursday filed an affidavit opposing the UDM's application saying that voting by way of an open ballot vote is not unconstitutional as claimed by the UDM. The applicant appears to concede that the Constitution is silent on whether such a vote should be open or secret. This concession already admits that a secret vote is not inconsistent with the relevant provision of the Constitution. For that reason alone the relief sought by the applicant is not competent. The president also argued that the UDM's claim that MPs participating in the motion of no confidence vote could be intimidated or suffer career-limiting consequences if the vote is done openly is spurious and without evidence.Speaker Baleka Mbete also filed an affidavit at the court in which she said she is personally not averse to having a motion of no confidence in the President being decided by secret ballot . I am however bound by the Constitution of the Rules that the (National Assembly) has adopted. Accordingly I have no authority or discretion to accede to the applicant's request. Mbete said the UDM should have approached Parliament s rules committee. I respectfully submit that this application has no merit; it does not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of this Court; it does not meet the requirements for direct access it is calculated to embroil this Court in political controversy in a matter that involved a violation of the principle of separation of powers and it is grounded on the assumption that the members of the NA particularly the African National Congress are weak-kneed timid cowardly unprincipled and spineless persons which assumption I am not prepared to make Mbete said.In the UDM's application leader Bantu Holomisa said that whenever members of the National Assembly were called upon to elect the president this must take place via secret ballot. It therefore follows that when members seek to express motions of no confidence in the president a secret ballot must also be used he argued. The UDM s case is that on a proper construction of the relevant constitutional provisions and the Rules of the National Assembly a secret ballot is required in respect of the motion of no confidence concerned. Holomisa said the rules of the National Assembly did not preclude the use of a secret ballot for a motion of no confidence.&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.