Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decision'I don t get stressed. Stress is a white man s disease and that is why a term such as stress did not exist in the Zulu language''When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftNone of the military options for North Korea are good, and most risk sparking the conflict everyone wants to avoid possibly while leaving the country s nuclear program intactThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'About a year ago for the first time in my life I contemplated life away from South Africa. I looked at academic courses I could never afford'I was at the Kathrada memorial in Durban on Sunday. In my old neighbourhood. The neighbourhood where under the guidance of the likes of Pravin Gordhan Billy Nair Curnick Ndlovu and Siphiwe Nyanda and Mac Maharaj (when they infiltrated the country for Operation Vula in 1987) I learned my politics tempered my angry disposition and grew up to be a trained and capable underground military operative. It is the city in which I was detained three times interrogated and tortured and the city in which the Vula Trial was conducted. Charged with terrorism in the old South Africa the last such trial before apartheid took its last gasp.Round about July 10 1990 my two closest comrades Mbuso Tshabalala and Charles Ndaba (we served on Vula's MCW Committee together) were executed in cold blood a few kilometers from the venue where the Kathrada memorial took place. After being tortured to the edge of their lives in Section 29 detention they were taken to the mouth of the Tugela made to kneel and then shot in the back of their heads. Their bodies were wrapped in wire mesh weighed down with rocks and thrown into the river never to be found or recovered. This is my Durban.Nine trialists were brought to (the apartheid) court late in 1990. All of them proud committed revolutionary subjects of the ANC both from its political and its military underground.More particularly these men and women represented the qualities of an ANC and SACP cadre of that time. Each of them went through the fire political education taught in "The Constructive Method" mentored in the ways of being a disciplined thoughtful militant and selfless revolutionary.Two had already previously served long term prison sentences on The Island and some had already spent multiple periods in security detention. This was a unity of young and old (youngest being Anesh 21 and eldest being Billy I think 67) men and women with no regard to race or ethnicity. Just a deep commitment to a better future for our country for ALL our people. What I witnessed on Sunday seemingly orchestrated was a blight on this proud tradition and culture. It was disgraceful.The Operation Vula triailists were granted indemnity in 1991. They together with hundreds of other ANC comrades dedicated themselves to working towards a non-racial non-sexist and democratic South Africa. A South Africa that would see an end to apartheid and that would usher in a future in which all citizens would get a chance to improve their lives.What we have now is a serious threat to that historic mission. Some have usurped power have begun to threaten our constitutional paradigm and are it seems intent on furthering their own enrichment.It's time to defend our hard-earned gains and to do this within and outside of our movement. It's time for a broad unity to stem the decay and speak with one voice for a renewal of our historical mission.Starting today (Monday) we have 8 Days. Make them 8 days that shake our beloved country. 8 Days to a motion of no confidence. 8 days of encouraging each of my network to find and lobby an ANC MP. 8 days in which I will work tirelessly to persuade our own comrades. 8 Days in which there is a pregnant possibility of ridding ourselves of this home-grown disaster of a State President. A luta Continua. Matla KiArona. Amandla!- Patel is a former deputy-general of the Department of Transport and was arrested for his role as an operative in the ANC's Operation Vula mission&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.