This comes after calls from Cosatu affiliates for Dlamini to either back Ramaphosa or back down as the federation s presidentThe ruling party would do the country a favour by bringing its presidency and that of the state into alignment, writes Roger Southall'Bring the investigation. We will love it. We want to clear our names. We don t want to be so tarnished as we are. Bring on the investigations. I m very happy the minister has ordered the SIU to come ..."Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Unemployment in SA is at its highest level since September 2003.The economy added 144,000 jobs during the first quarter but this was offset by the number of job-seekers surging by 433,000 people.The unemployment rate of 27.7% in the first quarter was up 1.2 percentage points from the fourth quarter of 2016."The gap in reaching the 2030 National Development Plan target of 24-million employed people is now 7.8-million " statistician-general Pali Lehohla said at the release of Statistics SA s Quarterly Labour Force Survey on Thursday.Growth in employment was seen in all industries except agriculture trade and services.Employment was boosted by growth in the manufacturing sector which added 62,000 jobs and in the finance and other business services categories which added 49,000 employees. Mining added 26,000 jobs.The youth unemployment rate rose by 1.6 percentage points to 38.6% with 58% of unemployed people aged between 15 and 34."It s very important that the unemployment in these two age groups of 15-24 and 25-35 has increased. Once they re unemployed for a period of time things are getting harder and harder for them to get jobs " said Lehohla.Unemployment was high at 33.1% among people who had less than a matric 5.4 percentage points higher than the national average. Unemployment among graduates remained at 7.3%.Unemployment increased and remained unchanged in all the provinces except the Northern Cape which decreased.Of the people who did not have work 9.3-million wanted work in the first quarter; while those who wanted work but did not look for work increased by 391 000 people.The expanded unemployment rate was 36.4%.Officially 6.2-million people were unemployed of whom 29.8% were female which Lehohla referred to as the feminisation of unemployment .TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.