Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decision'I don t get stressed. Stress is a white man s disease and that is why a term such as stress did not exist in the Zulu language''When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftNone of the military options for North Korea are good, and most risk sparking the conflict everyone wants to avoid possibly while leaving the country s nuclear program intactThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'About a year ago for the first time in my life I contemplated life away from South Africa. I looked at academic courses I could never afford'Embattled Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza has been fired with immediate effect. His dismissal was enforced by the Pretoria High Court just hours ago.Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decision that his appointment as one of the country's most powerful policemen be reviewed.The High Court had&nbsp;ruled that his appointment was&nbsp;invalid.Ntlemeza was appointed head of the Hawks in December 2014 by Police Minister Nathi Nhleko.The Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law brought an application for Ntlemeza s appointment to be declared irrational and unlawful and set aside asking the court to refer the appointment back to a selection panel for a new candidate to be chosen.In March 2015, High Court Judge Elias Matojane ruled that Ntlemeza "lacks integrity and honour" and had made false statements under oath.He&nbsp;was acting head of the Hawks at the time.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.