The national police commissioner is flatly refusing to answer questions posed by police watchdog, Independent Police Investigative DirectorateWe are stuck with just two stark models: capitalism and communism. Anyone ever heard of that strange word: Hybrid?A captured South African Treasury is bad news for the country's poor but the view that the capture is a natural enemy of the market economy is a mythThe technology could take about eight to 10 years to become usable by people with no disability, says MuskThe attack was swiftly claimed by militant Islamist group Islamic StateThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonusesA university student in sociology would learn much more from a morning in a Metrorail third-class carriage than in a seminar room on campusZuma&nbsp;and Zille must both fall says Cosatu in the Western Cape which will march on Workers Day calling for the removal of President Jacob Zuma and Western Cape Premier Helen Zille.The ANC s tripartite alliance partners the Cosatu and the SA Communist Party have called for Zuma to step down after his decision to fire Pravin Gordhan as finance minister.Meanwhile Zille is facing DA charges for tweets which many have viewed as praising colonialism.In a statement on Friday Cosatu Western Cape secretary Tony Ehrenreich accused Zille of racist endorsement of colonialism and said Zuma was helping thieves to steal from the country. The call for (Zille s) removal will also focus on the refugee slurs that she dished out in Cape Town as she tries to keep the city and the province (a) white preferential area said Ehrenreich.On Zuma Ehrenreich said he had been a poor leader of the ANC and the country. However during its May 1 march Cosatu wanted to expose hypocrites who marched for the future of the country against Zuma but would not do the same against Zille. They pretend to be speaking for all South Africans when really they are just speaking for the maintenance of the white privilege and those BEE brothers who they bought he said. They are in a squabble with the other thieves who are now stealing from the state coffers with President Zuma s help. By other thieves Ehrenreich was understood to be referring to the Gupta family who are close friends of the president.During the #ZumaMustFall protests a number of protesters also targeted the family protesting outside their Johannesburg home.TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.