This comes after calls from Cosatu affiliates for Dlamini to either back Ramaphosa or back down as the federation s presidentThe ruling party would do the country a favour by bringing its presidency and that of the state into alignment, writes Roger Southall'Bring the investigation. We will love it. We want to clear our names. We don t want to be so tarnished as we are. Bring on the investigations. I m very happy the minister has ordered the SIU to come ..."Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Gupta family associates have been accused of scoring billions of rands in alleged kickbacks to help a Chinese firm win lucrative Transnet tenders.The revelations were made by the Daily Maverick and the amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism on Thursday.The allegations centre around a multi-billion rand contract won by Chinese firm CSR (Hong Kong) Co Ltd to supply locomotives to Transnet.CSR (Hong Kong) was a subsidiary of China South Rail (CSR) which won a tender to supply 359 locomotives to Transnet in 2014.CSR contracted Gupta-linked Tequesta Group Ltd as a consultant the two media outlets reported in an article published on EWN.&nbsp;According to the agreement Tequesta would earn a 21% cut of every deal gained by CSR. That amounted to around R5.3 billion since 2014 the Daily Maverick and amaBhungane said.The report also detailed how the appointment of Malusi Gigaba as public enterprises minister in 2010 allegedly helped to entrench the influence of the Gupta family at Transnet.Gigaba who later moved to the home affairs portfolio and later finance appointed Iqbal Sharma who is close to the Guptas to the Transnet board where he oversaw procurement.He also appointed Brian Molefe as Transnet chief executive in 2011 before his stint at Eskom and in parliament. Molefe was last year implicated in allegations of state capture surrounding the Guptas.The Sunday Times reported on Tuesday that leaked emails showed how a former Gigaba adviser had done favours for the Guptas while at home affairs although he denied any impropriety.Gigaba has denied any involvement in state capture.&nbsp;This is a developing story.&nbsp;*amaBhungane and Daily Maverick said they had not contacted any of the parties for comment citing a provision in the South African Press Code that allows journalists to do so should they fear that the publication might be blocked. It however invited comments from those named in the article. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.