Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a dayThe R2.4 million splurge on the luxury vehicles for Dlamini and her deputy minister Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu is at odds with the National Treasury's austerity measuresMoody s is the only one of the three big ratings agencies that has not yet announced its outlookThe Conversation Africa s Science Editor Natasha Joseph asked Professor John Hawks, a member of the team, to explain the story behind these findsSome Democrats compared Trump's move to the "Saturday Night Massacre" of 1973, in which President Richard Nixon fired an independent special prosecutor investigating the Watergate scandal'Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'The Springboks were drawn with world champions New Zealand in Pool B for Rugby World Cup 2019 at a ceremony in Kyoto on WednesdayThere's a packed programme of events at The Franschhoek Literary Festival on the weekend of May 19 to 21. Here are the highlightsEmbattled social development minister Bathabile Dlamini has procured a R1.3 million German sedan for her official use in Pretoria while her deputy has gone for a R1.1 million SUV.The R2.4 million splurge on the luxury vehicles for Dlamini and her deputy minister Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu is at odds with the National Treasury's austerity measures introduced by axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan to curb wasteful and unnecessary spending of public funds in an environment where government revenue streams are dwindling.The Treasury capped the procurement price for official vehicles at R650 000 in 2014 but that was later revised to R750 000. In a written reply to a question by DA MP Bridget Masango the controversial social development minister confirmed that her department bought her a BMW 740i in October 2016.Dlamini further stated that three months earlier in July 2016 a premium luxury Jeep Grand Cherokee SUV was procured for Bogopane-Zulu.She told parliament in the written reply that purchasing the vehicles was "unavoidable" because cars they had purchased in 2009 had aged and had travelled more than 120 000 km."The official Pretoria-based vehicles allocated to the Minister and the Deputy Minister in 2009 have far exceeded the prescribed 120 000 km and the five year period."The Minister s vehicle reached 161 523 km and the Deputy Minister s vehicle 143 652 km. As such the purchase of new official vehicles became unavoidable and needed replacement due to high maintenance costs and security reasons " said Dlamini in her written reply.The minister said procurement was guided by prescripts and regulations of the National Treasury and stipulations of the Ministerial Handbook.The ministerial handbook says the purchase price of cars for a minister should not exceed 70% of their annual remuneration packages but these may be amended periodically by recommendations of the Independent Commission on the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers.Ministers currently earn an annual salary of R2.3 million.Dlamini Zuma also said it should be noted that she had delayed the purchase of another vehicle for her Cape Town office "in compliance" with the Treasury's cost cutting measures. "Members at national level may be provided with one vehicle for use in Cape Town and one vehicle for use in Pretoria " she said."One official vehicle in Cape Town has also far exceeded the prescribed 120 000 km (151 062 km for the Minister) and the five-year period. In compliance with the National Treasury s cost containment measures the Department has delayed the purchase of official vehicles for Cape Town."Although the money for the purchase of the new official vehicles for the Deputy Minister and Minister was budgeted for in the 2014/15 financial year the following official vehicles were only purchased in the 2016/2017 financial year " she said.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.