Treasury officials confirmed to Business Day that preparations were being made for the possible cancellation of the US leg of the tour'Zuma's well-laid plans did not reckon with a sudden dramatic event out of his control - the passing of struggle legend, Ahmed Kathrada'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOsGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'He is not the first person to cast doubt on the mythical marginal gains concept, neither is he likely to be the last''Still can t believe I have been hired by Disney to direct the live-action remake of The Lion King as part of their wonderful new plan to remake everything, all the time, forever'President Jacob Zuma recalled his Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan, from an international investor road show in the UK and cancelled a similiar event planned for the US to be led by his&nbsp;deputy, Mcebisi Jonas.His intention, it is now common cause, was to remove them from office and finally implement his long-delayed takeover of the Treasury. That would have taken place today. That would have stopped Gordhan's court action against the Guptas - set to start today - in its tracks and allowed Zuma to convene his new-look cabinet tomorrow.What other reason could there have been for the drama and the urgency?Zuma reportedly told members of the SACP that he intended to remove Gordhan at a meeting last night.But Zuma's well-laid plans did not reckon with a sudden dramatic event out of his control - the passing of struggle legend Ahmed Kathrada.Now Zuma faces a political dilemma. If he goes ahead with the firing of Gordhan today, he will face a massive political backlash, not least by speakers at Kathrada's funeral, set for tomorrow morning.Proceedings&nbsp;will be broadcast&nbsp;on national television and you can imagine speaker after speaker expressing outrage at Zuma over Gordhan's firing.Kathrada was, after all, a leading critic of Zuma and one of the few prepared to stick his neck out and demand his resignation, which he did in writing.Zuma, shedding crocodile tears over Kathrada in a brief statement, announced that Cyril Ramaphosa would lead government's presence at the graveside.He knows that he cannot attend. He risks a round booing from the crowd. The memory of&nbsp;what happened at Nelson Mandela's funeral is still fresh.The firing of Gordhan will have to wait with Zuma tolerating a little egg on his face over the dramatic recall from the investor road show. But it will come as soon as the political&nbsp;air has cleared. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.