'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio''A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'A stable treasury and financial portfolio are critical for the economy. The new finance minister and his deputy will prioritise stability in both treasury and the finance portfolio'In spite of saying that a single individual could not bring down a country's credit rating finance minister Malusi Gigaba said he knew that S&amp;p would downgrade SA'S sovereign outlook on Friday.Following the shock of S&amp;P's credit rating downgrade that left SA on junk status with a negative outlook Gigaba addressed the media at National Treasury on Tuesday following a briefing with former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan."When I spoke on Saturday I indicated that I had spoken to Moody s and Fitch. S&amp;P had already made the decision on Friday and there was nothing we could do to change that " said Gigaba."The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information."He said it was a matter of ethics."South Africa has R2.2 trillion in public debt. R20 billion of this debt is paid in foreign currency " said Gigaba.Yesterday S&amp;P lowered this debt to below investment grade.The downgrade was attributed to the recent executive changes that have put at risk fiscal outcomes and the contingent liabilities to the state and the view that political risks will remain high"While the financial executive has changed government's policy remains the same " said Gigaba."Our fiscal objectives remain unchanged " he assured.He added that he was confident in SA's current fiscal policy.Gigaba said he was committed to showing business leaders organised labour and rating agencies the economic policies to be optimistic about.He did however add that government was committed to radically transforming the economy."We need to reignite the nation's growth engine " said Gigaba&nbsp;-&nbsp;TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.