'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng issued a warning to lawyers in the grant payment case on Wednesday to mind the language they use when addressing the court.Mogoeng and several justices of the Constitutional Court had a heated debate with counsel for Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini&sbquo; Andrew Breitenbach SC&sbquo; on a number of occasions when judges questioned the conduct of his client.Mogoeng and other judges were trying to understand Dlamini's oversight role and that her admission that she was negligent was not a good explanation.Mogoeng had asked Breitenbach to assist in understanding the minister's position and whether the South African Social Security Agency was in a position to adjudicate on a new tender for the payment of grants.Breitenbach told the court that it must not jump to adverse conclusions about the minister.After an adjournment Mogoeng said it was incumbent upon counsel to mind their language. We remain bound by an oath of office to do the right thing. Decorum of the court does not permit counsel to warn us. We are very responsible people. We are not warned by officers of the court Mogoeng said.The chief justice requested counsel to always be alive to where they were what language was acceptable and what language was unacceptable to be used by counsel in addressing the court. - TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.