'We need to get to the bottom of whether any element within the national intelligence structure played any role in the production or dissemination of the bizarre intelligence report 'We are going to roll a mass action towards the 2019 elections. It's not about the EFF it's because we love SA. If you love SA Zuma must leave now''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shift'Trump has sent what he sees as a strong, robust message of U.S. resolve not just to Damascus but also to Russia, China and most particularly North Korea'The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitors'I did think about, am I ever going to win one?" admitted Garcia. "I've had so many good chances and either I lost them or someone has done something extraordinary to beat me''It was an extraordinary flip-flop, done with a straight face'Senior ANC member of parliament Makhosi Khoza has lashed out at the ruling party s leadership saying that it was effectively handing over power to the opposition.Khoza expressed the anguish she felt when South Africans took to the streets on Friday to call on President Jacob Zuma to resign. She said the mass action was a sign that the ruling party was irrelevant with chronic leadership incapacity.Khoza who headed the committee responsible for interviewing public protector candidates took to Facebook on Sunday to air her views on the current crisis within the ANC.She said that she has been victimised in ANC structures for standing for the truth revealing a sense of expectation that this could happen again. I once more choose to see the 7 April 2017 marches across the country as not conspiracies of white monopoly capital but genuine concerns of the majority of marchers. I am a product of history. The marches I witnessed across the country were not different from women s march against pass laws. They were the same as the March against Mike Gatting s disregard for International Sanctions against apartheid South Africa Khoza wrote.She then fires a bullet. Politics of patronage has finally claimed the sanity of my ANC leadership. A triumphant story has turned tragic in my life time. The ANC is defining itself out of power when the majority of its people remain trapped in poverty joblessness dependency on state social grants. The South African tragedy is an African continent catastrophe. I wish my ANC leaders could see what I see. I wish my ANC leadership could feel what I feel. I wish they can understand that indecision is tantamount to giving DA EFF ... power on a silver platter. Leadership Injudiciousness: deleterious to ANC relevance &amp; lifespan This is what is on my mind this Sunday, 9 April...Khoza caught the eye of South Africans during the televised interview process in Parliament that resulted in the appointment of Busisiwe Mkhwebane as the Public Protector. She also drew attention when she grilled former communications minister Faith Muthambi during Parliament's inquiry into the affairs of the SABC.Makhozi who now heads parliament's portfolio committee on public service and administration described her frustration with the type of leadership at the helm of the ANC. We are directed to maintain unity at all cost even if leads us to the ditch. We are instructed to follow directionless directives without questioning or raising the risks concerns for the route we are taking even if it leads us to the wasteland. She added that the ruling party was standing on an immoral platform from which it launched its attacks on oppressive systems.Her second post lamented the ANC Youth League s disruption of the Ahmed Kathrada memorial service in Durban on Sunday. Bakwethu! What we witnessed at the Kathrada memorial service in Durban leaves me ashamed. How do you reason with an unreasonable person? I must confess I cannot. The ANC reputation is being tarnished. Are these our branches? What outcome can we expect in December 2017 in this environment? Hayi bo! Maqabane! [No comrades] Sithini? Senzenjani? [What shall we do?] &nbsp;TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.