Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'I believe the board s proposal ultimately represents a significantly better value proposition to the South African fiscus than the previous proposal''The ANC condemns the unfortunate and reckless decision taken by the Board of Directors of Eskom to reinstate Brian Molefe as Chief Executive Officer'Zuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'The president talks and talks without showing any mastery - any understanding - of anything''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'The Springboks were drawn with world champions New Zealand in Pool B for Rugby World Cup 2019 at a ceremony in Kyoto on Wednesday'I walk into this quiet, meditative space and light candles for my dead mother and father and brother Shaun. Sunlight streams through the stained glass windows'The ANC on Friday joined a chorus of condemnation against Brian Molefe's return to Eskom as chief executive.The ruling party said Molefe was not in a position to return to his post after being named numerous times in the report titled State of Capture by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. The report had investigated allegations that the Gupta family had used their relationship with President Jacob Zuma to influence government tenders."The ANC condemns the unfortunate and reckless decision taken by the Board of Directors of Eskom to reinstate Brian Molefe as Chief Executive Officer of the energy utility. Molefe left Eskom under a cloud following the release of the Public Protector's report into State Capture late last year " the party said in a statement."The decision therefore to reinstate him in his former position without these matters being resolved is tone deaf to the South African public's absolute exasperation and anger at what seems to be government's lacklustre and lackadaisical approach to dealing decisively with corruption perceived or real."The Congress of the People (Cope) said the decision to reinstate Molefe did not come as a surprise."Cope is not shocked by the announcement that Brian Molefe is returning back to Eskom. It is now very clear that the Guptas are in control of South Africa " said party leader Dennis Bloem.He said that President Zuma's attempt to give Molefe the top job at the Finance Ministry triggered a public outcry and therefore Molefe had no choice but to take back the helm at the power utility."Molefe was hastily sworn in as Member of Parliament by Mr Jacob Zuma because the aim was to take up the position of Finance Minister but because of the rejection by the ANC officials he had to stay as an MP. This is a typical sign of a country fast moving into a banana republic " he added.Bloem asked for an urgent intervention from Minister of Public Enterprise Lynne Brown saying she "has a lot to explain about this matter" and demanded that Brown stop Molefe from resuming his duties at Eskom.The Democratic Alliance and other groups also criticised Molefe's comeback at Eskom.- TMG Digital#BrianMolefe DA: his re-in statement will have a negative effect on renewable programme. He will ensure nuclear deal goes ahead. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.