Their paths to power may be dramtically different, but the two men are surprisingly alikeOur venal politicians have evoked an anguish I have only felt once before, writes Charmain NaidooHerman Kotze says the biggest portion of his predecessor s severance package relates to shares he owned in the company"Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter accountMusk says he did all he could do to convince Trump to stay in the Paris climate accord'The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk and Walt Disney Co chief executive Robert Iger said on Thursday they would leave White House advisory councils after US President Donald Trump said he would withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord.Trump decided to pull the United States from the landmark 2015 global agreement designed to fight climate change despite entreaties from US allies and corporate leaders in an action that fulfilled a major campaign pledge. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world, Musk said in a Twitter post. He is a member of the President s Strategic and Policy Forum, a business advisory group, and Trump s manufacturing jobs council.Musk said on Wednesday that he had done all I can to convince Trump to stay in the accord, and threatened to leave the presidential advisory councils if Trump announced a US exit from the accord.Iger wrote on Twitter that as a matter of principle, I ve resigned from the President s Council over the #ParisAgreement withdrawal. He is leaving the business advisory group.Uber Technologies Inc chief executive Travis Kalanick quit the business advisory council in February amid pressure from activists and employees who opposed the administration s immigration policies.Trump created the business advisory group in December before taking office to assist him in making policy decisions. The group is led by Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone Group LP and includes Indra Nooyi, the chief executive of PepsiCo Inc and Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase.Asked about Musk s resignation, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told Fox News that anybody who read the agreement and understood it would realise that this was not really about climate, this was about US money going to other countries and it didn t solve the climate problem. Musk has met with Trump several times and spoken with him about the long term goal of his company SpaceX for flights to Mars carrying humans.The White House is planning to a hold a meeting with technology leaders on June 19, an administration spokesman said on Wednesday.General Motors Co said chief executive officer Mary Barra would remain on the presidential advisory panel, adding that her participation provides GM a seat at an important table to contribute to a constructive dialogue about key policy issues. In 2013, GM signed a declaration joining other major companies arguing that responding to climate change was good business. The automaker said on Thursday that despite the withdrawal it will not waver from our commitment to the environment. It was unclear whether Ford Motor Co s new chief executive, James Hackett, would join Trump s panel.Ford spokeswoman Christin Baker said on Thursday the No 2 U.S. automaker believes climate change is real, and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities. Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.