Major General Andre Lincoln said a hand-crafted rifle - which would have been used in the hit - was found under the desk of a senior SAPS member in Pretoria'The minister does not respect the law and has no idea what the constitution behoves her to do. We have an ignoramus in office''I don't want load shedding to return and we have been assured of continued support from Eskom so that we continue to have the country supplied with power''This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet'Japan's flag-flying operation comes as the United States under President Donald Trump appears to be taking a tougher line with China'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members''The Commonwealth Games Federation is looking for an alternative to Durban''Maybe the minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini was told that story at her mother s knee. It would explain how she deals with unethical behaviour'Shocking details about an alleged plot to assassinate the late President Nelson Mandela were revealed in the high court in Cape Town on Monday.Major General&sbquo; Andre Lincoln said a hand-crafted rifle - which would have been used in the hit - was foundunder the desk of a senior SAPS member in Pretoria.Lincoln said investigation into the assassination plan was covered up and "went nowhere".Lincoln who had been tasked with leading that investigation is suing the Minister of Police for R15 million. According to reports by News24 he is accusing police of a "malicious investigation and instigation of prosecution" against him.In 2002 he was found guilty of several counts including fraud. However his name was cleared and he rejoined the SAPS.Lincoln had been handpicked by Mandela to head up a special undercover unit to investigate organised crime into Mafia operations in South Africa. He probed the affairs of Italian mafioso Vito Palazzolo and then national police commissioner Neels Venter.He said the unit was also tasked with uncovering the details of a plot to have Mandela killed during his inauguration in 1994.Lincoln told the court that "for the first time in South African history" the high court in Pretoria issued a search warrant for the national police commissioner's head office to be searched after their investigation into the plot was blocked by police at every level.He said that a "hand-crafted firearm" was found under a senior police officer's desk. But the plot was allegedly thwarted after the ANC's intelligence structure caught wind of it.The case continues. - TMG Digital/The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.