On March 5 last year, the minister sent her a text message saying "take one down!". This appears to have been a request for a photo of her private parts'The tide is turning. The Zuma bet that South Africans will sit and watch while their country is stolen is falling apart. New movements are being born'Eskom has asked the regulator to waive some of the requirements for its 2018/19 tariff applicationZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'He keeps things vague, and then pokes his way into a given explanation, but leaves himself room to change direction in case he senses disapproval'The work led four days of bellwether auctions in New York where the world s wealthiest investors and families dropped more than $1.5 billion on Impressionist, modern, postwar and contemporary artBarcelona fought back from two goals down to beat Eibar 4-2 but the result could not stop Real from lifting the trophyI was startled by how many men came on the air pleading with women to cover themselves up, to avoid provocation because men will be men . Really?People have been discussing how Donald Trump interacts with other humans, guessing at the extent to which he is capable of anticipating or understanding how they think. Some believe he has no such "theory of mind." I disagree: He has one, but it s path-independent.Remember when he thought people would like the fact that he d fired FBI Director James Comey? Or the multiple times when he changed his story on why he did something? Those are the tell-tale signs.Most people, when they try X as an explanation, won t try not X afterwards, for the simple reason that they know their audience will know they were either lying before or they re lying now. But Trump will try stuff until one of his attempts works, defined as eliciting approval. He's path-independent, in the sense that he's completely unconstrained by his previous words and actions. If neither "X" nor "not X" works, he'll assume that it's his audience that is being irrational.In a prior column, I discussed the notion that Trump behaves like a machine learning algorithm. Well, his path-independent theory of mind fits perfectly into that metaphor.When Google is trying some new shade of blue in the background of their ads, they will perform what s called an A/B test to see what generates more clicks. If more people go for the ad with a lighter shade of blue, they will stick with it. What they won t do, critically, is consider the possibility that their audience liked the light shade of blue only because it came after the darker shade. They will assume that the audiences are independent of each other, constantly refreshed and new."The same approach might have worked well for Trump as a businessman. He probably would have encountered a wide range of scenarios: For every deal that went through, dozens might have failed. So trying X one day and Y the next would be like a real science experiment. Over time, he might develop pattern recognition, figuring out which tactic works best in certain kinds of situations. I assume that s where he learned to put pressure on business partners for unreasonable terms and to demand oaths of loyalty from his employees.Similarly, when Trump was campaigning, he actually did have a fresh audience on a daily basis. He could try out new things while re-using things that worked previously in similar situations, honing his craft with the direct and immediate feedback that he craves. His audience, in the context of a rally, was being refreshed constantly, just like Google s ad customers.I d argue that Trump's path independence operates on multiple levels. It's evident at a meta-political level when he takes a stab at sweeping campaign promises that he never intends to fulfill. It's also visible at the micro level, even within a given sentence: In his very strange recent interview with The Economist, for example, he kept attempting to adjust his message to obtain approval from his interviewers. He keeps things vague, and then pokes his way into a given explanation, but leaves himself room to change direction in case he senses disapproval.It doesn t always work for him. That said, he probably can t act any other way. Consistency has no attraction for him, because he is fundamentally principle-free.Trump's problem now is that the audience isn t refreshing. It s all of us, nationwide and globally. We remember what he said and did yesterday. We notice when he changes his story, and we re not amused. Meanwhile, he s left truly confused as to why things aren t working out in his favor.- BloombergCathy O'Neil is a mathematician who has worked as a professor, hedge-fund analyst and data scientist. She founded ORCAA, an algorithmic auditing company, and is the author of "Weapons of Math Destruction." Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.