The Western Cape High Court found that the determinations relating to the construction of nuclear plants were unconstitutional and invalidSaftu comes at a time of declining political influence by unions. They are also seen as elitistA captured South African Treasury is bad news for the country's poor but the view that the capture is a natural enemy of the market economy is a mythScientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't know'A voter who abstains, or casts a blank ballot, is a lost voter for Macron'The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonusesA university student in sociology would learn much more from a morning in a Metrorail third-class carriage than in a seminar room on campusThe Western Cape High Court has found government's alleged R1-trillion proposed nuclear deal with Russia to be unlawful according to social justice organisations who hailed the court verdict as a victory.Total victory for @Earthlife_JHB &amp; @SAFCEI Justice has prevailed!! Thank you to everyone&#39;s support! @chrisyelland @OUTASA @enviro_lawyersEarthlife Africa Johannesburg and the Southern African Faith Communities Environment Institute took the Department of Energy to court for procuring this arrangement under a veil of secrecy. The deal had allegedly been signed off by former Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson.Judge Lee Bozalek said any request for proposal or request for information to kickstart the procurement process was set aside as well as a deal to cooperate with Russia on the plan."The minister's decision on or about 10 June 2015 to table the Russian IGA [Intergovernmental Agreement] before parliament... is unconstitutional and unlawful and it is reviewed and set aside," he said.South Africa, which has the continent's only nuclear power station, has asked power utility Eskom to procure an additional 9,600MW of new capacity as it diversifies its energy mix away from ageing coal-fired plants.Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said they were studying the judgment.@SAfmnews Eskom notes the Western Cape High Court judgment on nuclear. We&#39;ll study the ruling and if need be, Eskom will make comments thereafter.Last week, Business Day reported that the power utility would ask Treasury for&nbsp;waivers and exemptions from procurement regulations.This came on the back of&nbsp;Nuclear Energy Corporation of SA (Necsa) CEO&nbsp;Phumzile Tshelane saying a request for proposals to build reactors could go out as early as June&nbsp;Additional reporting by Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.