From crying crocodile tears to becoming a member of Parliament, here is a timeline dating Eskom CEO Brian Molefe s activity since the state of capture report was released'Dlamini-Zuma has supported Zuma s call for radical economic transformation and land redistribution to address the racial inequality that persists 23 years after apartheid s end''A flight from a reserve currency would throw the global trading system into disarray'"Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''Oh my god. Trump has obtained the Bajoran Orb of Time''We had to focus. Manchester - we won for them. We played for England, we played for Manchester and we played for them -- the people who died'What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Europe can no longer completely rely on its allies, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Sunday, pointing to bruising meetings of G7 wealthy nations and NATO last week.Merkel did not mention by name U.S. President Donald Trump, who criticized major NATO allies and refused to endorse a global climate change accord, but she told a packed beer tent in Munich that the days when Europe could completely count on others were "over to a certain extent"."I have experienced this in the last few days," she said.&nbsp; "And that is why I can only say that we Europeans must really take our fate into our own hands - of course in friendship with the United States of America, in friendship with Great Britain and as good neighbors wherever that is possible also with other countries, even with Russia.""But we have to know that we must fight for our future on our own, for our destiny as Europeans," Merkel said.The two-day G7 summit in Italy pitted Trump against the leaders of Germany, France, Britain, Italy, Canada and Japan on several issues, with European diplomats frustrated at having to revisit questions they had hoped were long settled.The American tycoon-turned-president backed a pledge to fight protectionism at the end of the G7 summit on Saturday, but refused to endorse the climate pact, saying he needed more time to decide.But EU Council President Donald Tusk said on Sunday he was more optimistic now than after the U.S. election last November after EU leaders held talks with Trump in Brussels.&nbsp; "What I am absolutely sure after this meeting is that despite some extraordinary ... expressions, behaviors, etc, etc, our partners in the G7 are much more responsible than the first impression after the election in the United States," Tusk said in the Slovak capital.At the NATO summit on Thursday, Trump intensified his accusations that allies were not spending enough on defense and warned of more attacks such as this week's Manchester bombing unless the alliance did more to stop militants.Turning to France, Merkel said she wished President Emmanuel Macron success, adding to applause: "Where Germany can help, Germany will help, because Germany can only do well if Europe is doing well."France is Germany's second-biggest trading partner and the presidential election victory of the pro-European centrist reformer Macron over far-right protectionist rival Marine Le Pen in early May has sparked hopes that Berlin will ally with Paris in spearheading a broad-based economic revival in Europe.&nbsp;&nbsp;- Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.