By JAN BORNMAN, ARON HYMAN, ERNEST MABUZA and PHILANI NOMBEMBE NET1 boss Serge Belamant, whose company, Cash Paymaster Services, is at the centre of the pension grants crisis, has come out fighting. ...A detailed analysis of the 2016 election shows how the party is no longer in a majority in urban areas and is losing rural voters'Not raising the retirement age will have serious ramifications for the majority of lower-income South Africans who don t have a private pension fund''In a test for reporters, one bus cruised a block-long circuit so consistently that it created a dirt track on the tarmac'Some of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in TokyoThe green sea turtle had been finding it hard to swim normally because of the weightSA now has a 24-point lead over Fiji at the halfway mark of the season and have built a solid foundation to claim their first overall title since 2009'I saw the artist glaring at us, despising our spineless decision to come to see his work, hating our approving nods. I understood his anger'Net1's Cash Paymaster Services built a breathtakingly complex and impressive ecosystem to enable pension payouts in a country with the uncommon challenges of poverty, illiteracy and spotty communication infrastructure. Then their contract got revoked. Now the government and the country has come crawling back. What&rsquo;s a poor Nasdaq-listed company to do?Once upon a time I was very closely associated with a company that developed advanced technologies in the cryptographic-payments space. I was a shareholder and director of this company. Our major competitor at that time was Net1 (then called Aplitec), now at the centre of the pension grant debacle. Net1 eventually purchased our company.So I know something about the technologies that underly the payment of pensions, all the way down to algorithms that secure the authentication of recipients and the transactions that ping-pong through the various system modules.So I say this with complete confidence -&nbsp; there is no chance that the department will find alternative equivalent solution by April 1, 2017. Or, more alarmingly, 2018, and probably even 2019. No-one in government seems to have understood that the technological and logistical system than enables this payout system is about as complex a project undertaking that could be imagined, a very long time in the making and maturing. Not only in the maths underpinning the cryptography, but in the authentication of recipients in rural and telecoms poor environments, the non repudiation of the transactions, the confidentiality of the databases, the logistics of cash management, the biometric technologies, and, and, and.This is a massive, audacious and labyrinthine machine that has been built over decades and tens of thousands of man-development hours, and it works.&nbsp; There are no other South African organisations (and most certainly no government departments) who have the resources, skills, technologies and experience to do this, at least not for a long, long time. And even if a new system is designed now, it was certainly have to deploy technologies and skills from the US, Europe or Asia (unlike CPS s UEPS technology, which was developed here).Anyone in the chain of government who imagines that they can simply go out and hire another technology company to build this quickly is mistaken. Those who think that cash trucks can solve the problem display a shocking ignorance of even the most basic system flow. Who are they going to pay? How are those people authenticated as valid recipients? How are they going to move from biometric to PIN, as has been suggested? How long with it take? Is PIN appropriate for people unfamiliar with either PINs or bank accounts? (There are millions of recipients without bank accounts.) There is simply no Plan B on the table, not in the short or medium termI know Serge Belamont, the CEO of Net1, at least a little bit. I was as Wits with him, and have engaged with him a few times in a previous life. He is incredibly smart (he started as a technical guy - he understands the algorithms and their hardware means of expression at a bits and bytes level). He is a wily businessman - he managed to legally list his company in the US when everyone thought it was impossible. He is tough and uncompromising and occasionally abrasive. But the history of CPS and their BEE partners and the SSASA is murky and largely inscrutable to me and even after reading though the history (especially the fine investigative work of AmaBhungane) I still do not understand the whys and wherefores and who-did-whats.&nbsp; But we all know that the courts pulled the contract from under this deal in 2014. CPS was bounced and, somewhat unsurprisingly, the government failed to plan (let alone execute) a replacement system.But the moral culpability (or not) of CPS and other stakeholders is another matter. The real question is what is the right thing for CPS to do now. Belamont is faced with is a situation in which the government has come crawling back to to say - help. And he will. But given that the SA government is no longer his partner (and this would likely be a one time thing), and he is not a charitable organisation, and he is responsible to his public shareholders, he is going to squeeze a flooding amount of blood from this dull government rock.And it is not hard to understand why he would do so.- This article first appeared in the Daily Maverick Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.