'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''Whether the federal legal commission is charging me or not, whether I met Mmusi or I did not, what was said, what happened or what did not happen, I can't comment on this, OK?'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate power'Who was responsible? A president with a short attention span and no grasp of either process or policy didn't help'The proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'DA leader Mmusi Maimane wants Helen Zille to quit as Western Cape premier but the former Cape Town mayor will not go without a fight, sources say.Party members close to Maimane told the Sunday Times this week that the former Zille prot&eacute;g&eacute; believes the storm sparked by her tweet 10 days ago, in which she praised aspects of colonialism, means she has to go."Sometimes, in a marriage, ostensibly an argument is about something trivial like leaving your clothes lying on the floor, but actually it is about the state and the future of the marriage," a senior source sympathetic to Maimane said."Helen must do the honourable thing."A Maimane confidant confirmed that the DA leader wants Zille to resign as premier."Even Helen Zille's people in the Western Cape are gatvol [fed up]. But we'll see. She won't go without a fight ... there are similarities between HZ and Thatcher."Zille and Maimane met behind closed doors on Thursday night in his parliamentary office, but could not reach a resolution . It is unclear if Maimane told Zille to step down .Maimane's backers want Zille removed as the scandal could harm the DA's efforts to grow support among black voters. But removing Zille as premier could backfire as she still enjoys strong support from many whites, who form a solid chunk of DA voters.Maimane and Zille yesterday refused to share details of their meeting. "I can't talk about this, I can't comment," said Zille. "Whether the federal legal commission is charging me or not, whether I met Mmusi or I did not, what was said, what happened or what did not happen, I can't comment on this, OK?"Maimane said: "I cannot say anything about any meeting. It is important that the federal legal commission be left to do its job in a fair and balanced way. That is the difference between the DA and other parties. There will not be political interference."Read the full story in the Sunday Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.