Leaked e-mails show that Duduzane purchased the property with substantial assistance from the Guptas and their associates at the end of 2015Naithani who flies into South Africa from India for board meetings even informed the Guptas about his interactions with SAA chairwoman Dudu Myeni the emails show"Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount''We had to focus. Manchester - we won for them. We played for England, we played for Manchester and we played for them -- the people who died'What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?South African Communist Party General Secretary Blade Nzimande has lashed out at the controversial Gupta family labelling them a threat to the ANC and the country.Delivering a message of support at the 6th Central Committee of the Congress of South African Trade Unions in Pretoria on Monday Nzimande accused the Gupta family of interfering in South Africa using certain members of the ANC and government officials to push their interests and agendas."The most immediate threats facing our liberation are the parasitic networks that have a say in the state and our economy at the centre of which is the Gupta family which is working with some of the most senior comrades in our movement and the state " said Nzimande."I don't know what luck does this family have that made them leave their own country of origin and try to take a country that belongs to other people and even worse try to take their wealth and economy; and then we are told they are fighting white monopoly capital " he said.Nzimande who has been part of President Jacob Zuma's Cabinet since he took office in 2009 said those speaking against the manner in which the Guptas had an influence on the state would not be blackmailed into not speaking out."We say no to Guptarisation of our economy and the state or any other form of capture. Down with state capture down. We speak the truth and we are not greedy for positions so we will serve the people of the country as per our mandate " Nzimande said to loud applause.Nzimande who is also the minister of higher education said nobody would stop them from speaking out about matters concerning the ANC and country because it belonged to South Africans and not certain individuals.&nbsp;-&nbsp;TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.