Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a dayThe Zambian government has recently jailed the leader of the opposition, Hakainde Hichilema, on treason charges. The catalyst was a traffic incident involving rival motorcades. The stage to this ...The PWC report into the Eskom-Tegeta deal states that the contract had been poorly formatted contained irrelevant information and ambiguities and that it appeared to have been "hastily" draftedZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'What's immediately at stake in the Lula trial is whether even sainted leaders can be made to bow to the law''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'The Springboks were drawn with world champions New Zealand in Pool B for Rugby World Cup 2019 at a ceremony in Kyoto on Wednesday'I walk into this quiet, meditative space and light candles for my dead mother and father and brother Shaun. Sunlight streams through the stained glass windows'Finance&nbsp;Minister Malusi Gigaba s personal life could become serious business if he is asked to explain claims by his ex-mistress about his relationship with the controversial Gupta family.Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said South Africans would not care too much about the latest storm around Gigaba and Buhle Mkhize, with whom he had an extramarital affair. But he might have to answer questions about links to the Guptas.Earlier this week Mkhize went on Twitter where she took on Gigaba s wife Norma, threatening to spill details about the heated affair and of Gigaba s relationship with the Gupta family. Let s not forget the private jet Joburg to Durban @mgigaba. Shocker !!!. You ve never met the Guptas angithi [right]? Gigaba s former squeeze wrote in a long-winded Twitter post.The Guptas are alleged to have some prominent politicians in their pockets, ensuring they receive lucrative deals with the government.Although Gigaba could choose not to answer questions about his love life, he could be called to account for his alleged relationship with the Guptas, Mathekga said.If indeed the allegations made by Mkhize are true, Gigaba had opened the doors to being compromised. He could find himself being the subject of blackmail. He could find himself being pushed into a corner, Mathekga said.Gigaba would now have to live under the shadow of these suspicions. His actions would always be questioned on whether the decisions he made were in any way beneficial to the Gupta family.Political analyst Steven Friedman said that the rumours of Gigaba s alleged ties to the Guptas were not new. He will have to spend some time winding those [rumours] down. This is a crucial issue. But recent reports that he blocked a deal involving the Guptas was [beneficial] for him, said Friedman, saying this proved he wasn t dancing to the Guptas tune.Friedman said international investors would not be bothered by the reports of his love affair. And the affair would not affect his career. I can t think of a case in South Africa where a politician s career ended because of something like this, Friedman said.- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.