The finance minister bemoans the governance in SOEs, saying government as the shareholder was to blame for a lapseZuma is scared and he knows that people will not tolerate his actions for much longer, writes Justice MalalaHerman Kotze says the biggest portion of his predecessor s severance package relates to shares he owned in the companyTiziana Life Sciences wants to mine the data of 13,000 people in an area known for its high proportion of centenarians, for clues about ageing and a range of disordersThe attack in London was horrific but armed officers were on the scene and ending it with astonishing speed'The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo's stay at a luxury hotel in Dubai in 2015 was secured by Sahara Computers a company owned by the Gupta family.This new revelation is contained in the leaked Gupta family emails.The Sowetan can today reveal that according to invoices Dlodlo who recently replaced Faith Muthambi in the ministry after a cabinet reshuffle stayed at The Oberoi Hotel.The documents show that even though Dlodlo's stay was booked for by Sahara Computers her bills were settled by controversial businessman Fana Hlongwane.In an email with Dlodlo's invoice to Ashu Chawla The Oberoi's sales executive Sarah Ben Haouem writes that "Dear Shu. The charges for Ms Dlodlo were settled by Hlongwane Fana."Full story in the Sowetan.TMG/SowetanLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.