MPs earn an annual salary of R1 033 438 a year. Sixty percent of the total package is pensionable according to the latest Government Gazette detailing remuneration for members of ParliamentMadonsela recommended that Zuma should institute a commission of inquiry to be headed by a judge selected solely by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to further probe state capture allegations'Bring the investigation. We will love it. We want to clear our names. We don t want to be so tarnished as we are. Bring on the investigations. I m very happy the minister has ordered the SIU to come ..."Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?President Jacob Zuma has assured parliament that he will institute a commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture pending a court decision on the matter. But he's told legislators that he first wants the courts to clarify certain issues in relation to the recommendations of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela on the matter.In her state of capture report released towards the end of last year Madonsela recommended that Zuma should institute a commission of inquiry to be headed by a judge selected solely by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to further probe state capture allegations.However Zuma has mounted a legal challenge against that recommendation saying it interfered with his executive powers as President.Opening a debate on his budget vote for the 2017/18 today (Wednesday) Zuma said this was not to say that he was against a judicial probe into state capture allegations. Let me place it on record that there is no opposition from either the Government or the Presidency to the calls for a commission of inquiry into the said 'state capture'. We fully support an inquiry as it will help to uncover the facts and remove rumours about the extent of capture said Zuma amid jeering from opposition. He was applauded by some members sitting in the ANC side of the National Assembly chamber. What has caused a delay is the manner in which the former Public Protector directed that the inquiry should be done which infringes on the powers of the President of the Republic. If this is left unattended it would cause problems even for future Heads of State as it sets a wrong precedent. Legal advice obtained pointed at the fact that the remedial action on the appointment of a Commission of Inquiry undermines the doctrine of the separation of powers. There are various other issues that we have placed before court in our application for a review. We trust that this matter will be resolved as soon as possible."The ANC at a meeting of its national executive committee this past weekend resolved that allegations of state capture should be probed by a judicial commission.Zuma was interacting with MPs for the first time since the Democratic Alliance tabled the latest motion of no confidence in his leadership which is yet to be debated pending a court decision on whether or not this should be decided by secret ballot.He also present his budget vote amid shocking revelations by newspapers regarding the extent of the influence of the Gupta family who are his friends in government affairs.Zuma received a standing ovation from ANC MPs before the delivery and upon conclusion of his speech while members of the opposition occasionally heckled him.Shouts of "for the Guptas you need to resign to that to happen" came from the benches of the DA whenever Zuma referred to "a better life for all" in his speech.EFF MPs boycotted the debate in line with their stance of not recognising Zuma as a legitimate state president.- TMG Parliament Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.