'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'A video of three men trying to break into a house in Johannesburg is making news halfway around the world. An Orange Grove resident foiled the robbery and filmed it all. While it is no laughing matter&sbquo; it has had people chuckling even in Australia&sbquo; where it featured on that country's Nine News network.First seen on a community WhatsApp group&sbquo; the video shows three men attempting to gain access to the property by breaking open the palisade gate.The homeowner is alerted to the break-in and goes out armed with a camera to film what is happening. The would-be robbers do not notice the man as they try to force the gate open with a crowbar&sbquo; not until he clears his throat to let them know he is there.The three bemused men look up at the homeowner&sbquo; before turning to each other and then deciding to escape.A neighbour confirmed that a criminal case has been opened. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.