'Jennifer was a vibrant force for good and as a former chairperson of the De Beers Fund she inspired us and touched the lives of thousands of people''We have nothing against Brian personally. We are against wrong things''One would have to be extremely biased against Eskom to even remotely consider these allegations to be true given their ridiculous nature'Zuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'The issue is being addressed with China through appropriate diplomatic and military channels'The earrings, known as the Apollo Blue and the Artemis Pink, were bought by the same buyer, who wants to remain anonymous'It s just crazy. But to do it with a club of this size and magnitude I think it's a great achievement'I was startled by how many men came on the air pleading with women to cover themselves up, to avoid provocation because men will be men . Really?The EFF is on Friday expected to protest against bail for two men accused of murdering a teenager in Coligny in the North West.The death of 16-year-old Matlhomola Mosweu has sparked violent protests in the community.Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte who work on a local farm were arrested in connection with the teenager's murder.The two men deny that they murdered Mosweu. They say he jumped off a bakkie as they were transporting him to the police station where they had taken him after they found him stealing sunflowers.Doorewaard and Schutte were each granted bail of R5 000 earlier this month triggering renewed anger among black Coligny residents.Magistrate Magaola Foso said bail was not meant to be punitive."The court is satisfied that both applicants have no previous convictions they are gain fully employed both permanently reside in Coligny that they both intend to plead not guilty that they will stand trial that they will not interfere with state witnesses and the police investigation and not conceal or destroy evidence."But the decision sparked a wave of violence. At the time the EFF said it would oppose bail.EFF North West spokesperson Papiki Babuile told TMG Digital that the protest was going ahead."We will be starting at 10am and moving to the police station for our protest " he said."Our leader Julius Malema said that he would be joining us if he was available. If he cannot come the march will he led by provincial leadership and other national leaders " he said.EFF national spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said Malema would not be taking part in the protest.-TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.