It has also identified about 14,000 state employees who are listed as directors of companies that have been awarded state contracts in violation of regulationsFor 10 months and after six attempts Nquthu failed to sit and elect its office bearers'Solutions come first and foremost on the quality leadership that we have at the company in the form of the board''The continent s researchers are working on challenges as varied as astrophysics, malaria, HIV/AIDS and agricultural productivity''It was a huge explosion - you could feel it in your chest. It was chaotic. Everybody was running and screaming and just trying to get out'The work led four days of bellwether auctions in New York where the world s wealthiest investors and families dropped more than $1.5 billion on Impressionist, modern, postwar and contemporary artThere were recalls for Steyn Jan Serfontein Francois Hougaard Duane Vermeulen Coenie Oosthuizen and Chiliboy Ralepelle who have more than 200 test caps of experience between them'There is no nice way of putting this, but for most parts of the past month, I wished people would leave me alone'Voting stations for the highly anticipated by-election in the northern KwaZulu-Natal municipality of Nquthu opened at 7am on Wednesday.The road to this day has been long and littered with several hurdles not only for the political parties vying for the lion's share of the area's 81 000 voters but also for residents who have been in limbo for nearly 10 months as service delivery stalled.There was bloodshed after a Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor candidate Zanele Masondo was allegedly attacked by a rival political supporter in her shop.The death of Sphamandla Ngobese an ANC activist shook the ruling party's campaign.At one time the Hawks arrested Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) councillor candidates after allegations of a plot to assassinate some ANC councillors.Here is why Nquthu matters:1. Only council without a mayor: For 10 months and after six attempts Nquthu failed to sit and elect its office bearers resulting in a council without a mayor deputy or speaker.2. Umzinyathi District Municipality cannot sit without Nquthu: Nquthu is one of four local municipalities under the district and the IFP already controls two - Msinga in Tugela Ferry and eNdumeni in Dundee - while the ANC only controls uMvoti in Greytown. By law all local municipalities under a district have to elect their councils before a district is constituted.3. ANC leaders and opposition parties have descended on Nquthu to woo voters: The top six ANC members - deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa national chairperson Baleka Mbete secretary-general Gwede Mantashe treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize and several other national executive committee members like Bheki Cele Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma Bathabile Dlamini and Nomvula Mokonyane - all campaigned for the ANC in Nquthu. Battle-hardened IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi DA leader Mmusi Maimane and EFF commander-in-chief Julius Malema all made a strong showing with Malema staying four days in Nquthu.4. Kingmakers: The DA EFF and the NFP are all vying for king-making status. In all likelihood the winner today between the ANC and the IFP will not have an outright majority. The boisterous campaign of the three parties is to bolster their standing by securing and consolidating the four seats among themselves scooped in the last municipal election.5. Residents and service delivery: Nquthu matters because residents have been in limbo with several services coming to an abrupt halt. It matters because whoever controls Nquthu between the ANC and the IFP will control the uMzinyathi district thereby controlling the purse and the allocation of resources and bulk services like water sanitation energy and district road constructions.- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.