Treasury officials confirmed to Business Day that preparations were being made for the possible cancellation of the US leg of the tour'Despite appropriate medical care, his condition is deteriorating. He is currently comfortable'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOsGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'He is not the first person to cast doubt on the mythical marginal gains concept, neither is he likely to be the last''I m tired of the fact that those disaffected few have influenced how we all live our lives'The embattled ANC Regional Chairperson in Nelson Mandela Bay&sbquo; Andile Lungisa&sbquo; has resigned from his position with immediate effect.This comes after the ANC&rsquo;s highest decision-making body&sbquo; the national executive committee (NEC)&sbquo; took a decision that Lungisa should quit the position."The NEC took a decision [and] reaffirmed its previous decision. It left further action to the province rightfully because regions are under the jurisdiction of provinces&sbquo;" said ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe.He was speaking at a post NEC meeting briefing at the party's headquarters Luthuli House on Monday afternoon.Lungisa has been in a stand-off with Mantashe and the provincial ANC after he was elected as regional chair while also serving as PEC member&sbquo; a move that Mantashe warned was against the party&rsquo;s constitution.Mantashe asked Lungisa to resign from the regional structure&sbquo; but he openly refused&sbquo; claiming Mantashe read the constitution wrongly as there "was no such prohibition in the party&rsquo;s constitution".Lungisa was given a deadline to resign from his position last week Thursday failing which he would face disciplinary action. - TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.