'I only have two eyes. If only I had 10 eyes I would know so now I am relying on being told'South Africans across the land are protesting state capture by President Zuma. Follow events as they unfold'The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceTwo U.S. warships fired dozens of cruise missiles from the eastern Mediterranean Sea against the airbase controlled by Assad's forcesThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'It was an extraordinary flip-flop, done with a straight face'Former South African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan won t resign as a lawmaker for the ruling African National Congress before this month s debate of a motion of no confidence in the nation s leader who fired him last week. Not yet, Gordhan said Thursday in an interview in Cape Town when asked if he will step down from his post in the National Assembly as three other former members of President Jacob Zuma s executive have done. See you on the 18th of April, he said when asked if he will be on Parliament on the day of a no-confidence vote in Zuma.Former Transport Minister Dipuo Peters, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, who was the energy minister, and ex-Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas resigned as members of parliament, effective March 31, the National Assembly said in emailed statements. Zuma fired Gordhan, Peters, Joemat-Pettersson and Jonas in a cabinet&nbsp;reshuffle announced shortly after midnight the same day.By resigning immediately after their removal, the former ministers and Jonas may ensure they receive pensions according to their previous positions in the administration instead of what they would receive as lawmakers should they retire later.While opposition leaders have urged ANC lawmakers to vote in line to their conscience, party Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe said Wednesday its member won t be allowed to oppose Zuma. The rules of parliament don t allow for a secret ballot. The ANC hold 62 percent of the seats in the National Assembly.Read more on difficulty of pushing Zuma out of officeThe ANC is allowed to fill those seats before the motion, according to parliamentary rules. The motion requires 201 votes to pass, the rule book stipulates.Zuma s decision to fire Gordhan as finance minister and make 19 other changes to his administration drew widespread criticism, prompted S&amp;P Global Ratings to downgrade the nation s credit rating to junk and weakened the rand. The reshuffle have put policy continuity at risk, S&amp;P said. We didn t need the downgrade, we just gave it to ourselves, Gordhan said on Thursday.- Bloomberg Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.