Major General Andre Lincoln said a hand-crafted rifle - which would have been used in the hit - was found under the desk of a senior SAPS member in Pretoria'The minister does not respect the law and has no idea what the constitution behoves her to do. We have an ignoramus in office''I don't want load shedding to return and we have been assured of continued support from Eskom so that we continue to have the country supplied with power''This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet'Japan's flag-flying operation comes as the United States under President Donald Trump appears to be taking a tougher line with China'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members''The Commonwealth Games Federation is looking for an alternative to Durban''Maybe the minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini was told that story at her mother s knee. It would explain how she deals with unethical behaviour'The ANC has proposed a watered-down approach to land reform, despite President Jacob Zuma's recent call for land expropriation without compensation to be prioritised.The ANC's policy discussion on economic transformation, which formed part of the discussion documents released to the public yesterday, does not call for the expropriation of land without compensation.Instead, the document proposes that the government should do away with paying "premium" prices when purchasing land for reform and proposes "just and equitable" compensation.The party's attitude to land reform approach is expected to be a hotly contested topic at the ANC's policy conference, set to take place in June.Zuma's backers have adopted radical economic transformation as their campaign theme in a bid to deliver former AU Commission chairman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to the highest office.The divisions are likely to play out at the policy conference in Johannesburg when Zuma's supporters are expected to push that land expropriation without compensation be adopted as ANC - and therefore government - policy. Zuma recently broke ranks with his party's caucus in parliament when he suggested ANC MPs should have voted in favour of an EFF motion to amend section 25 of the constitution to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation.In January the Sunday Times reported that Zuma told an ANC policy workshop that the party's policy proposals were not radical enough and ordered that the documents be rewritten.Enoch Godongwana, head of the ANC NEC's subcommittee on economic transformation, which drafted the document, admitted that his party was divided on the matter."People have got different viewpoints on these matters. Obviously, there is going to be contestation," he said yesterday.- The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.