'We are not going to be threatened and we will get to the bottom of this R5.1-billion that is corruption and we are going to deal with it''Please God we have black people there choose another way of punishing white people ' Esethu Hasane posted'This is about a critical safety matter, with people's lives potentially in danger. We want to get to the bottom of this'The researchers expressed confidence the fossils from northeastern Canada were formed by organisms, saying no non-biological explanation was plausible'Le Pen, the populist, protectionist, anti-immigrant National Front leader, has undergone a remarkable makeover in the last year to improve her electability''I am reminded how much his character angered me. How much he disappointed me. How much he taught me. Then I realise that Troy was my father, who died almost a dozen years ago''The communist Bram Fischer and the arch-conservative Andries Treurnicht were, in different eras, intervarsity participants''There is no typical black person. You will find black people of every political conviction and every religious persuasion'Sport and Recreation Minister Fikile Mbalula was urged on Thursday to fire a communications manager for posting a racially offensive comment on social media.&ldquo;Only Western Cape still has dry dams. Please God&sbquo; we have black people there&sbquo; choose another way of punishing white people&sbquo;&rdquo; Esethu Hasane posted on Twitter and Facebook on Monday.Hasane is the media and communications manager of the Department of Sport and Recreation.&ldquo;The fact that three days have passed and the minister has not fired Hasane or taken any action for that matter&sbquo; means that he either shares this racist view or condones it&sbquo;&rdquo; DA MP Darren Bergman said in a statement on Thursday.&ldquo;This would seem to contradict the minister&rsquo;s previous views on racism and sport. Responding to racists comments made last year&sbquo; he said that racists &lsquo;have no place in our society and must be isolated as they take us backwards&rsquo;.&rdquo; - TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.