The Western Cape High Court found that the determinations relating to the construction of nuclear plants were unconstitutional and invalidSaftu comes at a time of declining political influence by unions. They are also seen as elitistA captured South African Treasury is bad news for the country's poor but the view that the capture is a natural enemy of the market economy is a mythScientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't know'A voter who abstains, or casts a blank ballot, is a lost voter for Macron'The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonusesA university student in sociology would learn much more from a morning in a Metrorail third-class carriage than in a seminar room on campusThe&nbsp;finance ministry has asked for a study into the introduction of an annual wealth tax as the government seeks to boost the standard of living of the black majority.The Davis Tax Committee, which makes recommendations to the National Treasury, also requested submissions from the public on the feasibility of a land tax and a national tax on the value of property in addition to existing charges, it said in an emailed statement on Tuesday. It will take comments until May 31 before holding hearings.The move comes two months after the government increased the top income tax bracket by 4 percentage points to 45% and as President Jacob Zuma called for radical economic transformation in his final year as leader of the ruling party. The ANC says the white minority still dominates ownership of the economy more than two decades after the end of apartheid. The distribution of wealth in South Africa is highly unequal, the committee, led by Judge Dennis Davis, said. It is well established that economic inequality inhibits economic growth and undermines social, economic and political stability. Tax ShortfallSouth Africa currently has estate duty, transfer duty and a donations tax, while capital gains tax is viewed as a tax on income rather than wealth, the committee said.&nbsp;The study was requested by now ex-finance minister Pravin Gordhan, Davis said by text message.The Treasury is struggling to meet its revenue targets amid sluggish economic growth and unemployment that was 26.5% in the fourth quarter of last year. The tax agency fell R30-billion short of its projection in the past fiscal year, the biggest gap in seven years. The government has pledged to cut the fiscal deficit to 2.6% of gross domestic product in two years from 3.1%. The only way we can look at how we can address income inequality is to create more wealth and more jobs, said&nbsp;Mike Schussler, chief economist at research group Economists.co.za. In an era where there is competition between tax jurisdictions, they are going to struggle to collect more revenue. People are going to spend more time hiding their wealth. Bloomberg Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.