It has also identified about 14,000 state employees who are listed as directors of companies that have been awarded state contracts in violation of regulationsFor 10 months and after six attempts Nquthu failed to sit and elect its office bearers'Solutions come first and foremost on the quality leadership that we have at the company in the form of the board''The continent s researchers are working on challenges as varied as astrophysics, malaria, HIV/AIDS and agricultural productivity''It was a huge explosion - you could feel it in your chest. It was chaotic. Everybody was running and screaming and just trying to get out'The work led four days of bellwether auctions in New York where the world s wealthiest investors and families dropped more than $1.5 billion on Impressionist, modern, postwar and contemporary artThere were recalls for Steyn Jan Serfontein Francois Hougaard Duane Vermeulen Coenie Oosthuizen and Chiliboy Ralepelle who have more than 200 test caps of experience between them'There is no nice way of putting this, but for most parts of the past month, I wished people would leave me alone'Finance minister Malusi Gigaba has expressed full confidence in SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni and the airline's board of directors although he says he will remain hands on at the troubled national carrier.Gigaba also said he wanted to put in measures to instil better governance at the board level of SAA saying he was convinced that the airline was capable of turning around its fortunes.His attitude towards Myeni who is said to enjoy the support of President Jacob Zuma is in contrast with that of his predecessor Pravin Gordhan who took a hard-line against the SAA board chair.Gigaba was briefing the media shortly after delivering his first treasury budget vote in parliament on Tuesday. It s quite clear that for the airline to turn around we need to have the department being more hands on because the solutions to the airline don t only come from recapitalisation or even any of the solutions proposed."They come first and foremost on the quality leadership that we have at the company in the form of the board " said Gigaba.He said one way of strengthening the board would be by filling the one vacancy on the board with someone with "aviation expertise." I want to reiterate the statement I ve been making. I think that SAA can be fixed. My own belief is that if we strengthen governance instruments at SAA ensure there is stability at the board ensure that there is a CEO ensure that the CFO functions and performs as well as we expect her to and that the board pays attention to the implementation of the long term turnaround strategy as has been reviewed I think that we can be able to turn the airline around and bring it back to financial health said Gigaba.He said the National Treasury was still considering its options regarding the recapitalisation of SAA which could include a possible partnership with a private equity partner.Government was also mulling over the idea of merging all its aviation assets into one airline.It owns various companies in the aviation industry that operate as separate entities including SAA low-cost airline Mango and regional carrier SA Express. What is the recapitalisation package that will be provided? I can t say at this point. Government is going to look at what is the package of recapitalisation that we will provide to the airline. One will make a statement at the medium term budget policy statement as to how we suggest we move forward said Gigaba.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.