Major General Andre Lincoln said a hand-crafted rifle - which would have been used in the hit - was found under the desk of a senior SAPS member in Pretoria'The minister does not respect the law and has no idea what the constitution behoves her to do. We have an ignoramus in office''I don't want load shedding to return and we have been assured of continued support from Eskom so that we continue to have the country supplied with power''This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet'Japan's flag-flying operation comes as the United States under President Donald Trump appears to be taking a tougher line with China'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members''The Commonwealth Games Federation is looking for an alternative to Durban''Maybe the minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini was told that story at her mother s knee. It would explain how she deals with unethical behaviour'Zimbabwe is negotiationg a new deal to continue importing power from South African utility Eskom to make up for shortfalls in generating capacity at its Kariba hydropower station, the energy minister said on Monday.In January last year Eskom agreed a one-year deal to sell up to 300 megawatts of capacity to Zimbabwe, which was facing biting shortages of electricity caused by low water levels in the Kariba dam. Generation capacity fell to a low of 275 MW from 750 MW, causing widespread blackouts.Samuel Undenge told reporters after a meeting between Eskom and state power utility ZESA Holdings that the two utilities were still discussing how much Eskom would supply to Zimbabwe, adding that imports would be paid for upfront."I don't want load shedding (scheduled power cuts) to return and we have been assured of continued support from Eskom so that we continue to have the country supplied with power," he said.Officials from Eskom and ZESA did not comment.Undenge said customers should pay their bills to ZESA, to enable the company to settle its Eskom debt, which stood at $40 million at the end of February.ZESA is owed $1 billion in unpaid bills by customers, including government departments.- Reuters Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.