This comes after calls from Cosatu affiliates for Dlamini to either back Ramaphosa or back down as the federation s presidentThe ruling party would do the country a favour by bringing its presidency and that of the state into alignment, writes Roger Southall'Bring the investigation. We will love it. We want to clear our names. We don t want to be so tarnished as we are. Bring on the investigations. I m very happy the minister has ordered the SIU to come ..."Made it to space. Team delighted," Rocket Lab said on its official Twitter account'She is no longer guaranteed to get the landslide majority that she was originally setting out to get''The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?Police Minister Fikile Mbalula s former spin doctor Anda Bici approached the Gupta family asking for funding the leaked Gupta emails show.Bici who is well known in ANC circles for being a fixer specialising in communication wrote to Atul Gupta in June 2014 requesting financial assistance for an ANC Youth League project that in total would cost about R6.3m.On Thursday Bici confirmed the email but said that he had never had any relationship with the Guptas. He had been referred to them by someone. Yes I did send the email to the said address of a Gupta fellow even though I have never seen any of them. The project has never happened. It is a general phenomenon to ask for sponsorship of businessmen and women. I am delighted that he never responded nor help though Bici said.He said his request was for a genuine cause to write the Youth League s story. [The request] was not self-serving he said.In the email Bici sent attachments that provide Atul Gupta with the project s budget and logistical details for his consideration. He said the project was approved by the then ANCYL National Task Team and would consist of a book as well as four documentaries on the history of the ANCYL. Dear Mr Gupta. The e-mail of this nature serves to submit a proposal to your good office and department for partnership and financial assistance the email stated.In the email Bici said he was writing on behalf of three young activists who had come up with a concept to commemorate the heritage of youth struggles in the country. We would greatly appreciate to have a meeting to follow up and finalise this matter by the end of June at the latest as we plan to have a launch and have a manuscript of this project by September 2014 and complete book and documentary at the beginning of 2015 the email stated.The project s concept document said the project would be part of the ANCYL 70th anniversary which was in September 2014. Against this brief we wish to involve former leaders in the compilation of a documentary through narrating their experiences and stories of the various epochs the organisation has undergone. As key players of the ANCYL s history we believe their narrations will serve not only as memoirs but tools to teach younger generations on the future struggles we are to confront the concept document stated.The Times/Sunday Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.