'Jennifer was a vibrant force for good and as a former chairperson of the De Beers Fund she inspired us and touched the lives of thousands of people''We have nothing against Brian personally. We are against wrong things''One would have to be extremely biased against Eskom to even remotely consider these allegations to be true given their ridiculous nature'Zuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'The issue is being addressed with China through appropriate diplomatic and military channels'The earrings, known as the Apollo Blue and the Artemis Pink, were bought by the same buyer, who wants to remain anonymous'It s just crazy. But to do it with a club of this size and magnitude I think it's a great achievement'I was startled by how many men came on the air pleading with women to cover themselves up, to avoid provocation because men will be men . Really?Eskom chairman Ben Ngubane on Friday repeated his denial of claims made by former minerals minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi who has accused Ngubane and Eskom boss Brian Molefe of asking him to make decisions in favour of a Gupta-owned company.Ramatlhodi's statements formed part of a comprehensive story by the amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism published this week on EWN.amaBhungane said it had found evidence that Molefe and Ngubane had helped squeeze a mining company out of business so that a Gupta-owned company could buy it.Below is Ngubane's full statement released on Friday morning.MEDIA STATEMENT:Eskom Chairman rebuts the allegations of undue influence on former Minerals Minister RamatlhodiFriday 19 May 2017: The barefaced lies by former Ngoako Ramatlhodi could only be sustained by unsuspecting or decidedly biased minds said Dr Ben Ngubane following widespread reports suggesting that both he and Brian Molefe pressured him to suspend all the mining rights held by Glencore. It is absolutely implausible to suggest that a sitting senior minister could have been bullied by the officials of a state entity. One would have to be extremely biased against Eskom to even remotely consider these allegations to be true given their ridiculous nature. Such allegations by a former senior minister with such a critical national mandate are not only absurd but highlight his own perception of his incompetence said Dr Ngubane.Dr Ngubane wondered why the former Minister failed to raise this purported violation at the correct time of its alleged occurrence. Did he approach the media at the time it alleged occurred? Did he report the matter to the police if he did what is his case number? Why has it only now become opportune to make these damaging allegations? One would have expected that a genuine moralist which he claims to be would have brought these serious allegations to the attention of the police and/or the media instantly. Genuine moralists do not hang their morality on convenience. This is evidently an opportune time for him to make the allegation and one can only wonder at his motive said Dr Ngubane.Even though his allegations are unseemly delayed explained Ngubane they should at least be truthful. Unfortunately they are patently not! For instance while in his previous position as Minister Ramatlhodi stated according to the media reports that he suspended Glencore Optimum s licence because it did not conduct retrenchments properly. At no point did he allude to us being the reason thereof Dr Ngubane elaborated. But he has suddenly decided to self-shame by contradicting himself with his current public statements. He has shamelessly suggested that the licence suspension was not based on the manner in which Glencore handled the retrenchments as widely quoted in the media Dr Ngubane said.Dr Ngubane lamented the current narrative about Eskom. It has become very difficult if not totally impossible to separate the truth from wanton fiction. Eskom is the biggest victim of unyielding innuendo and naked lies. &nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.