'We have finalised papers to force the minister to retract what he is saying,' says Ntlemeza's attorneyCyril Ramaphosa made several veiled attacks on Jacob Zuma, who s backing his ex-wife Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, for the presidencyA captured South African Treasury is bad news for the country's poor but the view that the capture is a natural enemy of the market economy is a mythScientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't knowFears have risen in recent weeks that North Korea could conduct another nuclear test or long-range missile launchThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonusesA university student in sociology would learn much more from a morning in a Metrorail third-class carriage than in a seminar room on campusSouth Africa's downgrading to junk investment status is not the catastrophe it is made out to be, says Mzwanele Manyi.Manyi, a businessman and former government spokesman, is known for his outspoken views on "white monopoly capital" and the need for "radical economic transformation" expressed on social media.In an interview this week he shared some of his views on the economy, the cabinet reshuffle and an "ailment" he diagnosed as "Guptaphobia".Although acknowledging that junk status was "not good", Manyi said there had been an "overreaction" to the downgrading."Junk status is not this catastrophic thing that people have defined it [to be]. It's disingenuous to say it will affect the poor."Yes, it will affect the poor, but it's disingenuous to use that when in South Africa we have a history of not being in junk status but poverty has never come down," he said.Manyi is president of the Progressive Professionals' Forum and believes that fundamental change can be achieved only through "radical economic transformation" and pursuing an economy that is inclusive of the black majority."On the night of the [cabinet] reshuffling I was excited. I welcome the reshuffle."We need a critical mass of black people at top positions. Everyone must have a stake in the economy," he said."The current system has produced nothing; it has stalled economic growth. This system has created a nanny state, with millions of people depending on grants. It is not sustainable."Asked about his relationship with the Gupta family, he said they were "getting a raw deal in South Africa" and had not been found guilty by a court.Their real crime, he said, was disrupting the interests of white monopoly capital."I am not Guptaphobic and I would like people to be cured of that disease," he said.Manyi is opposed to the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Bill."We have enough laws in the country that deal with criminal activities, therefore we do not need the Fica Bill to arrest anyone," he said.The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.