Photographs taken at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada in JohannesburgIt was less a funeral than one last political intervention from beyond the grave by someone whose life never ceased to seek meaningIt's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOs'They are bigger than anything that has been recorded anywhere in the world'The insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'Everyone would say New Zealand can count themselves very unlucky''Still can t believe I have been hired by Disney to direct the live-action remake of The Lion King as part of their wonderful new plan to remake everything, all the time, forever'President Jacob Zuma's office has confirmed that he "will not attend the funeral and memorial service (of struggle veteran Ahmed Kathrada) in compliance with the wishes of the family."And, he has postponed the start of today's cabinet meeting "to enable members to attend the funeral".The funeral takes place as rumours swirl that Zuma will axe finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas after canning investor roadshows the two were to lead to the UK and the US.In a statement issued on Wednesday morning,&nbsp;Zuma&nbsp;said:&nbsp;&ldquo;The nation has lost one of its valuable and most respected freedom fighters, Isithwalandwe, Mr Ahmed Mohamed Kathrada, one of the accused of the famous Rivonia Treason Trial. The passing of Mr Kathrada is a monumental loss not only to his family but to all South Africans as he was one of the fearless and dedicated architects of the free and democratic South Africa. He sacrificed his personal freedom and persevered through hardships for the liberation of all South Africa and to create a democratic, non-racial, peaceful and prosperous South Africa.&rdquo;&nbsp;Mr Kathrada will be remembered for his discipline and the fearless leadership that he displayed which led to his arrest in 1963 in Rivonia, near Johannesburg.&nbsp;Zuma said Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will lead the government delegation to the funeral and memorial service. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.