Photographs taken at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada in Johannesburg'I offer a fresh path, one of hope and prosperity for all, born out of a concern about the plight of the unemployed and the blight of endemic hopelessness'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOs'They are bigger than anything that has been recorded anywhere in the world'The insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'We need to stop fighting with yesterday'Until the firing last week of Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas, the top leadership of the ANC defaulted to closing ranks around Jacob Zuma. They seemed most worried, not about the health of the economy or rising unemployment or the delivery of social grants, but their political survival, keeping their noses clean in the hope that they will be around long enough to pick up the pieces when (and if) Zuma goes. In the process they have become part of the problem, the stony-faced Members of Parliament watching on at the theatre of the National Assembly, the wannabe leaders of tomorrow who always will be, apparently incapable of taking a stance. This has changed for some with President Zuma s Night of the Long Knives. But moral outrage will only take them so far. If South Africa s President is to come from a faction outside of the Zuma's, someone close to power needs to display leadership. If they fail to do so, without staking out their personal position and politics, without risking skin in the game, they are unlikely to create the leverage needed to unseat the Zuma faction. This requires clarifying their views on current developments and on state capture, and also providing a clear-cut alternative vision which South Africans could latch onto all of which might look something like this &nbsp;&nbsp;South Africa is at a crossroads.At this political junction there are two paths. One is towards deepening state capture, increasing international isolation, and the ultimate failure of South Africa s economy.On this, which is our current path, the test of loyalty is not to our country or even the ruling party, but to a tiny clique of interests. It is not to those historically disadvantaged by apartheid, or to those who are today without jobs.This path is now termed a radical economic agenda, the purpose we are told is to deal with the vestiges of white minority capitalism. But that s not the real target. Its aim is to deflect attention away from actions intent on carving up the economy. These benefits accrue principally to a tiny elite who had nothing to do with the struggle, and who thrive on the corruption of their government relationships.&nbsp;This path contains an agenda where the institutions of state are used as the vehicles for such enrichment, where governance is sidelined and undermined, where ignorance, pliability and personal loyalty rather than professionalism, probity and patriotism are the qualities sought of the administration. It s one where security agencies act in the interest of a small minority.In this environment public expression is no longer taken as a sign of the health of our society, and of our democracy, but of its excesses. Along this path, rather than the judiciary being a reflection of the people s will, its findings and rulings are increasingly ignored, to the cost of our cherished constitution.&nbsp;This scenario is one of low growth, high debt, increasing costs, falling employment, rising inflation, growing lawlessness. It s where a lack of investor confidence hurts the poor and the jobless the most. It is where South Africa operates for the few at the expense of the many. It s an economy where political connections trump private enterprise, where the power of patronage is greater than that of good ideas, where the rewards of public procurement and tenderpreneurs rule over investment and skills.We wanted democracy. Now we have warlordism by ballot. This is a South Africa not of merit; rather, at best, of mediocrity. &nbsp; &nbsp;Today, I offer you something different.I offer a fresh path, one of hope and prosperity for all, born out of a concern about the plight of the unemployed and the blight of endemic hopelessness. They speak of my desire to put governance, growth and people first. These are the tenets of the ANC, they are what we struggled for, and they are what we now risk losing.It is not a question of turning left or right at these crossroads. We should not be blinded by false ideological promises, of radicalism and populism. We need pragmatism and delivery, concern and care, without which we risk inequality, disadvantage, trauma and violence.&nbsp;We require much more than grandstanding to fix things, to chart a new direction. We have to publically defend the institutions which safeguard our rights. We need to get organised. And we have to have a plan for growth and redistribution.We need to level the playing field in terms of education, skills, health and access to the levers to create wealth. We have to give title to houses, not talk land expropriation without compensation. We have to invest in infrastructure, not seek to skim from contracting. We need a national plan that is more than an unheeded statement and empty promise, but a living, working commitment to a better life for all.&nbsp;So, how will I go about realising this?In a democracy, we cannot expect to lead through our positions alone. Authority comes from our actions. This emerges from what we do, the people we serve through, how we persuade others through our bearing, and the manner in which we accept responsibility.We need to reset our politics in the same way that brought the apartheid regime to its knees, through uniting South Africans, in business, civil society, and the unions. Divided we, not Zuma, will fall.Yet words are cheap, no matter my commitment to the struggle, to the organisation I have served my whole political life. I am not going to leave the ANC, or resign my position, since that is exactly what President Zuma would like me to do. Instead, I urge ANC members to vote with their conscience in the vote of no-confidence in the national assembly.My conscience is clear. President Zuma must go. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.