Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'This judgment signifies unfettered encroachment of the judiciary into the realm of the executive pandering to the whims of the opposition'On 28 April, CNN's Christiane Amanpour interviewed former finance minister, Pravinn Gordhan. Here is the interview in fullScientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't knowLeaving the euro would be a "a fatal plan and a dangerous plan", Macron said. "What you propose is currency war."'When the news that we had started brewing the Pisner came out, a lot of people thought we were filtering the urine to put it directly in the beer and we had a good laugh about that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at Chiefs'Are we back at the dark days of apartheid when we really could not even be called partly free?'The ANC has lashed out at the North Gauteng High Court after it ordered President Jacob Zuma to explain his reasons for firing former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas.The ruling party on Friday said that the ruling by Judge Bashier Vally in the Pretoria court was a clear case of judicial interference in matters of the executive."This judgment signifies unfettered encroachment of the judiciary into the realm of the executive pandering to the whims of the opposition who want to co-govern with the popularly elected government through the courts " said party spokesperson Zizi Kodwa.This follows the filing of the Democratic Alliance's urgent application with the court on April 24 to force Zuma to disclose his reasons for reshuffling his Cabinet on March 30.However Zuma's lawyers argued that the DA had already acknowledged this and on that basis was not entitled to any record of the decision.In court papers the president had said that the opposition party's urgent application to have reasons for the recent Cabinet reshuffle divulged was misconceived and without merit.Kodwa said Zuma has no obligation to provide reasons to anyone for changes he makes to his Cabinet."The Constitution confers upon the president powers to constitute his cabinet without imposing an obligation upon him to consult opposition parties in the exercise of this discretionary function. To read into the Constitution that the president must explain himself on the composition of the national executive to the opposition is to use the judiciary to police political decisions and sets a very worrisome precedent " Kodwa said.Zuma's spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said the president would not comment on matters before the courts.&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.