Treasury officials confirmed to Business Day that preparations were being made for the possible cancellation of the US leg of the tour'Zuma's well-laid plans did not reckon with a sudden dramatic event out of his control - the passing of struggle legend, Ahmed Kathrada'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOsGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'He is not the first person to cast doubt on the mythical marginal gains concept, neither is he likely to be the last''Still can t believe I have been hired by Disney to direct the live-action remake of The Lion King as part of their wonderful new plan to remake everything, all the time, forever'Struggle veteran Ahmed Kathrada has died&sbquo; his foundation said on Tuesday morning. He was 87 years old.In a tweet at 5.43am&sbquo; the foundation said: "Ahmed #Kathrada has passed on. Details to follow."Kathrada had been ill for the last month&sbquo; with his condition deteriorating in the last 24 hours. He was taken in for surgery for surgery linked to blog clotting on the brain.The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation&rsquo;s Director Neeshan Balton said that the veteran had &ldquo;experienced several post-operation complications&sbquo; rendering his condition serious&rdquo;.&ldquo;Kathrada has contracted pneumonia&sbquo; which has affected both his lungs&sbquo;&rdquo; Balton said. &ldquo;Despite appropriate medical care&sbquo; his condition is deteriorating. He is currently comfortable.&rdquo;There was an immediate outpouring of grief on the social media platform.&nbsp; Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.