The finance minister bemoans the governance in SOEs, saying government as the shareholder was to blame for a lapseZuma is scared and he knows that people will not tolerate his actions for much longer, writes Justice MalalaHerman Kotze says the biggest portion of his predecessor s severance package relates to shares he owned in the companyTiziana Life Sciences wants to mine the data of 13,000 people in an area known for its high proportion of centenarians, for clues about ageing and a range of disordersThe attack in London was horrific but armed officers were on the scene and ending it with astonishing speed'The star in question is very odd indeed. Every once in a while, the light it emits dims perceptibly, sometimes by an astonishing amount'Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has agreed a new two-year contract with the Premier League club, according to British media reports on Tuesday. Wenger's future was the subject of intense speculation ...What could make your life so utterly pointless that you would give yourself up to die in a suicide that takes the lives of those whose lives have not yet begun?It s not a good sign when your country s leader is listed with Donald Trump whose approval rating hovers at around 40%.President Jacob Zuma was bestowed that dubious honour recently when Time Magazine compiled a list of five world leaders less popular with its citizens than the embattled American president.South Africans with a penchant for dark comedy will be heartened to see Zuma making the cut with Time pegging his approval rating at an all-time low of 20% in the seven major metropolitan areas. More eye-popping is the number of South Africans who want him to resign: an astounding 70%.While the article lists the country s slumping economy as part of the reason for the low approval ratings it also points to the man himself as the biggest cause. But it s Zuma himself who s the bigger problem the article reads listing the nearly 800 charges of corruption against him his patronage networks and the expelling of well-respected ministers as part of myriad reasons to account for only one in five urban South Africans supporting the president. Zuma s term runs through 2019 &nbsp;for most South Africans change can t come soon enough the article concludes.The other four listed include Michel Temer of Brazil Venezuela s Nicolas Maduro Najib Razak of Malaysia and Alexis Tsipras of Greece.South Africans might be comforted that at least Zuma hasn t overseen crises on the scale of some of the above leaders: Maduro endures daily violent protests and inflation of over 800%&nbsp;last year while at the same time defanging the national legislature.Temer may find himself the second Brazilian president in a row to be impeached after recordings emerged linking him to the far-reaching Lavo Jato graft scandal. Brazil is also in its worst recession after two consecutive years of the GDP contracting more than 7%.TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.