His plane touched down at Johannesburg International Airport this morning'I must say that he was quite fearless in terms of his determination to confront what was wrong in the ANC'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOsGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'He is not the first person to cast doubt on the mythical marginal gains concept, neither is he likely to be the last''Still can t believe I have been hired by Disney to direct the live-action remake of The Lion King as part of their wonderful new plan to remake everything, all the time, forever'Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday said he did not know why President Jacob Zuma had recalled him and his deputy&sbquo; Mcebisi Jonas from a roadshow in London and the US.The pair returned to South Africa earlier on Tuesday from a trip which had been aimed at investors and ratings agencies.The recall had triggering renewed speculation of a cabinet reshuffle. I don t know Gordhan told reporters at the North Gauteng High Court when asked why they were called back.But when pressed further Gordhan said: I did not recall myself. I think ask the Presidency he said.Asked whether he was to meet with Zuma to find out why he was called back Gordhan said the media would be notified if a meeting was to be scheduled.He told the media not believe rumours that he had fired from his position.Earlier Treasury spokesperson Yolisa Tyantsi told TimesLive that she was unaware of rumours that Gordhan planned to resign."[There is] no such that I know of " said Tyantsi via text message when asked to comment on reports of Gordhan's imminent resignation.This follows renewed speculation about Gordhan s future after President Jacob Zuma on Monday recalled him and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas from roadshows in London and the US aimed at investors and ratings agencies. Rumours of a cabinet reshuffle were rife.ANN7 earlier reported that Zuma had informed the ANC s top six of plans to remove Gordhan.Gordhan was believed to be the main target of a reshuffle.The ANC's top six spent Monday in marathon talks with the six leaders of the SA Communist Party whose members have previously threatened to resign from cabinet if Zuma moves against Gordhan. - TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.