Photographs taken at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada in JohannesburgLate night reshuffle sees several high profile ministers axed for loyal lieutenantsIt's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOs'They are bigger than anything that has been recorded anywhere in the world'The insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'We need to stop fighting with yesterday'30 MARCH 2017&nbsp;PRESIDENT ZUMA APPOINTS NEW MINISTERS AND DEPUTY MINISTERSI have decided to make changes to the National Executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness.The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the National Executive in order to benefit from their energy, experience and expertise.I have directed the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality.The new members are the following;&nbsp;MINISTERS1. Minister of Energy, Ms Mmamoloko Nkhensani Kubayi2. Minister of Transport, Mr Joe Maswanganyi3. Minister of Finance, Mr Malusi Gigaba4. Minister of Police, Mr Fikile Mbalula5. Minister of Public Works, Mr Nathi Nhleko,6. Minister of Sports and Recreation, Mr Thembelani Nxesi7. Minister of Tourism, Ms Tokozile Xasa8. Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Faith Muthambi9. Minister of Home Affairs, Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize10. Minister of Communications, Ms Ayanda Dlodlo&nbsp;DEPUTY MINISTERS1. Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba2. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Sifiso Buthelezi3. Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, Mr Ben Martins4. Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture, Ms Maggie Sotyu5. Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr Gratitude Magwanishe6. Deputy Minister of Communications, Ms Thandi Mahambehlala,7. Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ms Elizabeth Thabethe8. Deputy Minister of Police, Mr Bongani Mkongi9. Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams10. Deputy Minister of Small Business Development, Ms Nomathemba November.&nbsp;I wish to extend his gratitude to the outgoing Ministers and Deputy Ministers for their service to the country. I also wish the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers the best in their new responsibilities. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.