South Africa and the ANC are not in a good place Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has conceded.Ramaphosa who is in the running to be elected to the presidency of the ANC in December was speaking at the party s Western Cape policy conference in Stellenbosch yesterday, convened in preparation for the party s national policy conference in Johannesburg later this month.The conference was attended by national executive committee members Pallo Jordan and Derek Hanekom.Ramaphosa who was warmly welcomed by delegates had words for those who are behaving badly in the party, saying their actions adversely affect the entire country. Where we are right now, our movement is not in a good place. Our country is not in a good place. And now here is where the issue really is important as we sit here this mighty, glorious African National Congress gives us the platform [from which] to voice our views on behalf of our people. It gives us the platform to come up with proposals to see how we will get out of this situation we are in. We have a lot of resources. [The situation] is because you have the wrong people in a number of positions. Radical economic transformation should lead to inclusive growth and not to the enrichment of just a few or certain families. [Those who are behaving badly ] are affecting the people of South Africa said Ramaphosa to applause. The ANC exists for the people of South Africa. The ANC is the parliament of all the people of South Africa. Ramaphosa said that when the party implements its policies it must always bear in mind that we are doing this for the people of this country . Where we are now with the various challenges our movement faces the various challenges that our country faces the economic challenges the junk status that we are in now the economic recession that we are in now we must come out with practical, workable policies that will bring radical and fundamental changes in the lives of the most vulnerable and poorest of the poor. - The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month.