'While a healthy open discussion about the media is essential to any democracy, this sort of slanderous attack is to be regretted'Before Jacob Zuma became president, I speculated about what might happen. Most of it has come true ...'Equilibrium is merely one of many conceivable states of that world; there s no particular reason to believe that the economy would naturally tend toward it''This study really gives us a glimpse of what was in a Neanderthal's medicine cabinet'Park becomes South Korea's first democratically elected leader to be forced from office, capping months of paralysis and turmoil'This is the first time it has been shown that bumblebees can tell the difference between their scent and the scent of their family members'Smith was seen looking to the Australian dressing room while considering appealing against his dismissal for lbw as Australia were going down to a 75-run defeat'Maybe the minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini was told that story at her mother s knee. It would explain how she deals with unethical behaviour'Times Media CEO Andrew Bonamour was sent a list of questions by journalist Joseph Booysen of Business Report, which is published by Independent Media.The questions arrived the day after Independent&rsquo;s Iqbal Surve served legal notice over an article critical of his company by journalist Ann Crotty. Read the full article here.Here are the questions:Dear Mr BonamourI am preparing an article for Business Report and will greatly appreciate your comment on the issue regarding TMG. Can you please confirm, getting a salary of R28 million? Is it true that TNG retrenched 450 people, mostly black? Did you keep the white middle management? Is Business Day running at a loss?&nbsp; Did you sell Nu Metro to your friends without lease agreements? Did you sell Exclusive Books to Mark Barnes, CEO of SAPO and did you declare this to your shareholders, Are you friends with Mr Barnes and did you work with him at Brait? Is it true that Dr Johan Rupert was given a Lift Time Achiever Award? Are you a racist? Would it please be possible to respond to these questions by the end of business today?Kind regardsJoseph Booysen&nbsp;|&nbsp;Business Report: Multimedia reporterHere are Bonamour&rsquo;s responses:Q: Can you please confirm, getting a salary of R28 million?&nbsp;Thanks for the increase ... I'll spend it wisely. Oh wait, you'll need to get it past the board's remuneration committee first. Damn.&nbsp;Q: Is it true that TNG retrenched 450 people, mostly black?&nbsp;You must be confusing us with another media house.Q: Did you keep the white middle management?&nbsp;See aboveQ: Is Business Day running at a loss?&nbsp;&nbsp;Read our financial statements - the documents are in the public domain.Q: Did you sell Nu Metro to your friends without lease agreements?&nbsp;You obviously haven't encountered the concept of corporate governance ...Q: Did you sell Exclusive Books to Mark Barnes, CEO of SAPO and did you declare this to your shareholders, Are you friends with Mr Barnes and did you work with him at Brait?&nbsp;Ditto above - TMG has a board of directors who take their fiduciary duty rather seriously.Q: Is it true that Dr Johan Rupert was given a Lift Time Achiever Award?&nbsp;To my knowledge Johann Rupert is self sufficient and doesn't require lifts&nbsp;Q: Are you a racist?&nbsp;Oy vey.....Q: Would it please be possible to respond to these questions by the end of business today?Lighten up Boet....it's a FridayBonamour added: "On a serious note, these questions clearly suggest that a deliberate effort is being made to denigrate myself and Times Media because one of our journalists had the temerity to ask questions about a media business. While a healthy open discussion about the media is essential to any democracy, this sort of slanderous attack is to be regretted." Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.