'We need to get to the bottom of whether any element within the national intelligence structure played any role in the production or dissemination of the bizarre intelligence report 'It is not easy to speak of the rot that eats away at our society. However, many great South Africans have done so despite the risks. They are our hope''The reason I didn't take you into my confidence is because they had taken me into their confidence. I had to afford them the courtesy of not divulging the information'Cameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe U.S. Navy strike group Carl Vinson canceled a planned trip to Australia and is moving toward the western Pacific Ocean near the Korean peninsulaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognized'I did think about, am I ever going to win one?" admitted Garcia. "I've had so many good chances and either I lost them or someone has done something extraordinary to beat me''It was an extraordinary flip-flop, done with a straight face'The Inspector General of Intelligence Sethlomamaru Dintwe is investigating the origins of the intelligence report apparently used by President Jacob Zuma to fire Pravin Gordhan.In a statement on Monday DA MP David Maynier said Dintwe had confirmed the probe.Maynier had written to Dintwa in March amid the storm that followed the sacking of Gordhan as the Finance Minister.In his letter Maynier had asked that Dintwe to investigate whether any element within the national intelligence structure played any role in the production or the dissemination of the intelligence report and if so whether same amounted to a violation of the Constitution any law any regulation and/or any policy applicable to the national intelligence structure in South Africa. Zuma received a lot of criticism including from his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa for using the report to justify the firing.Ramaphosa slated Zuma publicly saying he raised his concerned and objections because Gordhan was removed based on an intelligence report that I believe had unsubstantiated allegations about the Minister of Finance and his deputy going to London to mobilise financial markets against our country. Said Maynier: We welcome the investigation because we need to get to the bottom of whether any element within the national intelligence structure played any role in the production or dissemination of the bizarre intelligence report reportedly used as a pretext for the cabinet reshuffle which pulled the plug on the economy and triggered junk status in South Africa. Last week South African Communist Party deputy secretary general Jeremy Cronin also called for an investigation into the origins of the report during an address at a memorial service for Ahmed Kathrada in Cape Town.&nbsp;-&nbsp; TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.