Ntlemeza suffered a double blow today when judges Peter Mabuse Jody Kollepen and Selby Baqwa dismissed his leave to appeal last month's high court decisionZuma on Thursday filed an affidavit opposing the UDM's application saying that voting by way of an open ballot vote is not unconstitutional'When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftNone of the military options for North Korea are good, and most risk sparking the conflict everyone wants to avoid possibly while leaving the country s nuclear program intactThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'The sad and scary truth is that in this part of the continent we turn on our white brothers and sisters when we are unable to change the lot of the poorest among us'Western Cape Premier Helen Zille was formally charged on Wednesday with bringing the Democratic Alliance into disrepute and damaging the party.DA federal committee chairman James Selfe confirmed that formal charges had been laid regarding her public views on colonialism reported News24.TimesLIVE reported earlier this month that Zille would face disciplinary action for her tweets about colonialism. "The charge against Ms Zille is that she has allegedly violated the party's federal constitution by acting in a manner which has brought the party into disrepute " DA leader Mmusi Maimane said at the time.Zille tweeted last month: "For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative think of our independent judiciary transport infrastructure piped water etc.""Would we have had a transition into specialised healthcare and medication without colonial influence? Just be honest please " she wrote in a second tweet.Maimane responded in a tweet Let's make this clear: Colonialism like Apartheid was a system of oppression and subjugation. It can never be justified. Zille has since apologised.-&nbsp;TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.