The former SABC exec also says government should regulate all broadcasters to ensure they play a majority of local contentGovernments have transitioned from outright control of freedom of expression to a subtler manipulation of the pressA captured South African Treasury is bad news for the country's poor but the view that the capture is a natural enemy of the market economy is a mythA convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shift'If you threaten them and your threat is not credible, it's only going to undermine whatever your policy toward them is'The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'The sad and scary truth is that in this part of the continent we turn on our white brothers and sisters when we are unable to change the lot of the poorest among us'Former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng has spoken out about the SABC board s plan to reconsider the 90% local music policy that he initiated for all the public broadcaster s radio stations.In a strange and wide-ranging press conference Motsoeneng was joined by a collective of singers and artists who support the local content drive.Motsoeneng said government should regulate all broadcasters including commercial radio stations to ensure they play a majority of local content. People are starting to go back to studio to record quality content. So there is nothing wrong with local content he said.Motsoeneng and his supporters also railed against those who criticised President Jacob Zuma. People who are toyi-toying they are (a minority) he said.Motsoeneng added that some of those who criticised Zuma are captured . Don t listen to black people who have been taken by the western (sic). Because black people some of them they have been captured. Singer Blondie Makhene was among those speaking in support of Motsoeneng. I m saying to the new board at the SABC don t come to play with us. We are not the children who you controlled before the singer said.He added that musicians would oppose any change to the policy. We the music makers are writing this script and you are going to listen to us. Makhene said if the SABC drops the 90% local music policy it should just drop local music entirely. We are ready to die as paupers. You take us off your radios. TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.