By JAN BORNMAN, ARON HYMAN, ERNEST MABUZA and PHILANI NOMBEMBE NET1 boss Serge Belamant, whose company, Cash Paymaster Services, is at the centre of the pension grants crisis, has come out fighting. ...A detailed analysis of the 2016 election shows how the party is no longer in a majority in urban areas and is losing rural voters'Not raising the retirement age will have serious ramifications for the majority of lower-income South Africans who don t have a private pension fund''In a test for reporters, one bus cruised a block-long circuit so consistently that it created a dirt track on the tarmac'Some of the missiles landed in waters as close as 300 km to Japan's northwest coast, Japan's Defence Minister Tomomi Inada said in TokyoThe green sea turtle had been finding it hard to swim normally because of the weightSA now has a 24-point lead over Fiji at the halfway mark of the season and have built a solid foundation to claim their first overall title since 2009'I saw the artist glaring at us, despising our spineless decision to come to see his work, hating our approving nods. I understood his anger'There is no doubt that the rhetoric coming from President Jacob Zuma since the beginning of the year has been more populist in tone.Whilst many observer would question whether this really does equate to any meaningful policy changes in a party locked in a factional and ideological straightjacket, the shift to the left on &lsquo;radical economic transformation&rsquo;, bank ownership and latterly &ndash; and most visibly - land expropriation without compensation - has distinct medium-term political undertones which should not be diminished.While&nbsp;this might well be Jacob Zuma&rsquo;s swansong period, the ANC is now preparing itself not only for succession but also for its toughest battle yet &ndash; the 2019 national election.Given its poor result in 2017&rsquo;s local polls, a divided party on ideology, policy and personality has few options to rally around. With the absence of a new leader &ndash; and only likely to be resolved in December &ndash; there is no guidance from a fresh personality at the helm.But, one thing the ANC does understand is the realpolitik of survival in power. Whilst this might rest on keeping a patronage-based class happy via rent-seeking contracts and linkages, the more practical side of electoral politics can take equal effort.For the ANC, their best option in 2019 is to somehow re-capture the EFF&rsquo;s 8% of the vote. This would restore the ANC majority to above 60% and keep the DA neatly at bay at levels below 30% of the vote.Anything under 60% leaves the ANC highly vulnerable to further factionalisation which can threaten their majorities further and this time, lead to a possible provincial loss of power in Gauteng.The advent of the EFF has largely contributed to the ANC&rsquo;s diminishing authority &ndash; from within the halls of the National Assembly to the council chambers of Tshwane, Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay.Whilst the DA has experienced some green shoots in attracting black support thanks to a herculean transformative leadership effort, without the EFF, it would still largely be locked out of the power seats in the new Metro&rsquo;s it governs.The ANC are indeed watching the recent actions and statements of Julius Malema carefully. Malema has always admitted that the EFF&rsquo;s beef with the ANC is centred around the personality of Jacob Zuma. The EFF&rsquo;s regular parliamentary disruptions are clear examples of this while Malema has consistently spoken of a better relationship should Zuma be replaced with someone of the likes of Kgalema Mothlanthe.Malema has never really disavowed an eventual return to the ANC. Should the conditions be right in terms of a reconstructed and more populist ANC (especially on the question of land expropriation), the familial rift could well be healed.For the ANC, this might just be their ticket to restore their power positon in 2019. And, they are making the right noises in the process. Should they wish to really reel in Malema, it will have to be done more credibly by Jacob Zuma&rsquo;s successor, but the ANC is setting the scene for its more populist policies to be articulated with greater gusto.So for the competing candidates set on replacing Jacob Zuma as ANC President by the end of the year, this reflects something of an opportunity and a threat. The desire to rid the domestic body politic of the disruptive tone of the EFF must be clearly desirable in Luthuli House as frustration builds.For the ANC, the options are to out-flank the EFF on the populist side of the policy equation employing rhetoric such as that used by President Zuma on economic transformation and land expropriation without compensation. This, the ANC hope,s will begin a process of undermining the EFF as a first-tranche of the strategy to pull the policy carpet from beneath their feet. Once this is accomplished, fresh (non-Jacob Zuma) leadership will have to continue to pander to Malema s world view with a view to bringing him back to the familial fold.Whilst Nkosazana-Dlamini Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa battle for support among the many special interest groups within the ANC, an overriding populist message to undermine the EFF will be present. Both candidates will need to buy in to this in an attempt to claw back a 60% majority. The idea is for both populism and new leadership to be employed by the ANC concurrently to achieve this end.It s all a dangerous strategy. Already, President Zuma s statements on supporting land expropriation threaten to undermine the constitution of the country let alone confidence in the domestic economy. Attacking tenure security through land seizures will be enough to send many a shiver through large swathes of the investor community just as the country so desperately needs to up its flatlined growth rates.But that s the downside. The upside for the ANC is that populism can be employed to swing votes and shore up power with the EFF as king-pins in this regard.For the ANC, this injects another fissure not just between those seeking to keep a lid on expenditure and prevent political cronyism via state capture versus the prudent pragmatists but now also between those who see populism as a political tool to keep power against those who are wary of the economic implications of such rhetoric and radical policy.Furthermore, this strategy suggests that frontrunners like Dlamini-Zuma and Ramaphosa are ready to buy into this strategy of future-proofing the ANC s majorities. Both would have to shift their own individual stances more radically left should they get elected in December. Both would need to indicate their readiness to amend the constitution to allow land grabs thus setting a negative chain reaction amongst investors and large swathes of domestic society. It would be an uncomfortable strategy for either front-runner to pursue but one that President Zuma seems set on pursuing at least until the end of his term.Ultimately, the new fissures over just how populist the ANC can be in reality on issues like land are about to buffet a party reeling from every imaginable division. Still, when it comes to the governing parties new found vulnerability at the polls, power and the pursuit thereof can still trump common sense. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.