Suspended senior police officers costing taxpayers millions of rands a yearHow much money will be stolen'When we talk about inclusive growth and the package of policies it s exactly the same programmes that we all are concerned about'A convergence of three trends -- ride sharing, autonomous driving and vehicle electrification -- will drive the shiftCorruption has become entrenched in Ethiopia because of the political dominance of a single party - the Ethiopian People s Revolutionary Democratic FrontThe Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsBaxter has also made additional requests for a car cellphone overseas travel allowance housing allowance and special performance bonuses'The sad and scary truth is that in this part of the continent we turn on our white brothers and sisters when we are unable to change the lot of the poorest among us'First the marches against President Jacob Zuma were racist; now the campaigners are also anti-black. This is the latest rhetoric from our president as he was speaking at the Twelve Apostles Christ Church s Easter service in Umgababa, south of Durban, on Sunday.A week ago, Zuma described as racists the thousands of South Africans staging marches countrywide to push him out of office. "Placards at the marches depicting monkeys indicated that our white counterparts view black people as less of human beings or subhuman said Zuma. "We cannot allow racists to take our country backwards." Fast forward to this past Sunday and the president was at it again.Our people must be able to control administer and enjoy the economy. .. now you must be removed because you are trying to make black people wiser " Zuma said. "You saw the people in those marches the type of people who have never marched before." He must find it a bit disturbing how South Africans of all races have come together to call for his ousting.There were plenty of photographs showing black and white protesters holding hands, marching together and waving carefully crafted home-made posters, all demanding the same thing: Zuma must go. Many an observer pointed out that Zuma had managed to unite South Africa.Zuma s arch-rival Julius Malema was opportunistic enough to take advantage of the wave of patriotism, saying at Wednesday s march: We have united for the purpose of taking back our beautiful country. . . If not wanting Zuma is racist then we are proud racists! Playing the race card in a bid to divide the nonracial anti-Zuma movement is a misjudgment on the part of the president.South Africans are not that stupid. We see right through you, Mr President. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.