The office of the district public prosecutor has recommended that Elvis Ramosebudi the man accused of plotting a coup by mass assassination undergo mental evaluationHe said that the ANC was invited to send delegates to the rally but no invitation was extended to Zuma'The judge was unequivocal that by slipping the Russian agreement through parliament as a routine matter for noting, the former Energy Minister Joemat-Petterssen had committed a gross error'Scientists might be the worst possible defenders of science because they are comfortable with uncertainty and are willing to admit what they don't know'Trump s shifting moods have produced several notable flip-flops. Most prominent has been that on Russia, in part because he praised President Vladimir Putin again and again from mid-2013 to February ...The Pobrezje cemetery on the outskirts of Maribor, Slovenia's second largest city, recently set up a prototype of a weather-proof and vandal-proof digital tombstone that can interact with visitorsMuntari said he had complained that parts of the crowd, including a group of children, had hurled racist insults at him from the start of his Italian team's game at Cagliari in Serie A on SundayIf anyone was still uncertain that Elvis was up to no good, a hit list was soon circulated online, helpfully headed with the words: This are the beneficiaries of the State Capture regime, who are to ...Cosatu says that President Jacob Zuma was not invited to speak at its disrupted Workers' Day rally in Bloemfontein.Zuma was booed and effectively prevented from making his speech at the event where some workers chanted and told him to voetsek .He put in an appearance despite some unions in the federation objecting to him speaking in light of recent calls by Cosatu for him to stand down as president of the country. We did not invite President Zuma to speak in our rally Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali told Justice Malala on the Justice Factor on eNCA on Monday night.He said that the ANC was invited to send delegates to the rally but no invitation was extended to Zuma.Zuma arrived at Loch Logan Park surrounded by a security detail. He was expected to deliver the keynote address but ended up suffering possibly his greatest humiliation yet when fisticuffs between his supporters and opponents forced organisers to call the whole thing off reported The Times.&nbsp;- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.