Sign up for South Africa's top news club. It's easy and it costs just R4 a day'I challenge you that the delegate you send to our congress in July be given a mandate to discuss this. You must be bold,' said NzimandeMoody s is the only one of the three big ratings agencies that has not yet announced its outlook'This is surprising. It was believed it would have been millions of years in age''Logic would tell you that you don't want the national security adviser to be in a position where the Russians have leverage over him''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'While Baxter s first spell as Bafana coach was no great shakes he has since gone on to enjoy considerable domestic success including two league championships in three years at ChiefsThere's a packed programme of events at The Franschhoek Literary Festival on the weekend of May 19 to 21. Here are the highlightsSouth Gauteng High Court Judge Bashir Vally said on Tuesday that an executive decision made by President Jacob Zuma can be reviewed.Vally said this while giving reasons for an earlier judgment in which he ordered Zuma to provide the Democratic Alliance with reasons as to why he had embarked on a cabinet reshuffle.The DA approached the court on an urgent basis seeking to obtain the reasons why Zuma had removed former finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas.Zuma made the announcement in a late night statement that said I have decided to make changes to the National Executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness. The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the National Executive in order to benefit from their energy experience and expertise. I have directed the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality. Vally said the cabinet reshuffle had caused a great deal of consternation for many citizens. It is no exaggeration to say that it was received with shock alarm and dismay by many. - TMG Digital/TimesLIVE Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.