'All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name. I have no idea why my name was mentioned''The ANC and Zuma are only trying to have yes men and women in the JSC so that the JSC can appoint judges who can rule in their favour'A high turnover of senior management hobbles their ability to take decisions and massive losses threaten their financial viabilityGraphene, which is just one atom thick, is strong, highly flexible, electrically conductive and transparent, making it ideal for gathering the sun's energy to generate powerThe Republicans risk defeat in their first attempt at major legislation and may fail to deliver on a key campaign pledgeThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedShockwaves reverberated when Fifa said its disciplinary committee had banned Joseph Lamptey of Ghana for fixing the result of the match'You can give every student free higher education tomorrow, and the disrupters would find another item of discontent and continue the chaos'The man who acting national police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane says is crucial to the investigation into the burglary at office of the Chief Justice has been handed over to police.Nkosinathi Msimango was handed over to detectives at Boschkop police station by his lawyer Sammy Mahlangu shortly before 2pm on Friday.The Times had an exclusive interview with Msimango and Mahlangu who said they had no idea about the burglary the suspects or the motive for the crime.Last weekend 15 computers were stolen from the office of the chief justice in a burglary which many have described as highly suspicious with ulterior motives.The computers were stolen from the HR department."All I can say " said Msimango, "is that I am here to clear my name."I have no idea why my name was mentioned. The commissioner must tell me why he wants to talk to me."On Wednesday Msimango's brothers were brought to court in connection with the burglary.They were however not charged with the burglary. Instead they were charged with the illegal possession of firearms ammunition and fake identity documents. - TMG Digital/The Times Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.