Photographs taken at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada in Johannesburg'That s what you get for stuffing the seats of parliament with people whose major strength is loyalty rather than technocracy'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOsCameras on the station tracked the debris shield bag as it sailed into the distanceThe insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'We need to stop fighting with yesterday'This weekend an analyst made the point that most people in government have few skills with which to find a job in the private sector. The government has been their employer all of their working lives. There is little of else of value that they can bring to the real world. That s what you get for stuffing the seats of parliament with people whose major strength is loyalty rather than technocracy. And now these are the people on whom we are counting on to make history.A lowly MP in parliament, without any leadership responsibilities (like committee chairman or some such) earns about R100K per month plus a slew of perks (travel, expenses, uberpensions, insurances, etc) probably worth 50% on top of that. Climbing up the hierarchy to the more vaunted positions gets you closer to R200K per month. By any measure this is a comfortable life - houses, cars, single malts, private schools and exotic holidays are all within reach. Even without using these positions as crowbars into tenders.And then something happens. The boss raids the cookie jar, uses taxpayer money to build fancy houses, hires and fires friends and perceived enemies with gleeful abandon and without consultation, has slumber parties in a Saxonwold mansion, reads fictional intelligence reports at bedtime. And the lowly MP says to herself - this is not on, this cannot be. I am going to make myself heard, I am going speak out, I am going to vote for censure, vote my no-confidence, and I don t care if I lose my job, I serve a greater good.Sure.At Ahmed Kathrada s memorial on Saturday we saw this in harsh relief. Other than the quiet, dignified and grieved rage of the widow, Barbara Hogan, whose steely accusations were unconditionally directed at one man, almost all of the other speakers hid behind implication and innuendo. They spoke of corruption and greed and creeping authoritarianism. They spoke of mobilisation. They spoke of renewal. But painfully few spoke of Zuma and his enforcers by name. Even Brian Hlownga, speaking for the Gauteng ANC, his hands trembling with what I assume to be a mixture of outrage, anger and perhaps fear, could not bring himself to utter the president s name.The people gathered in the hall and outside looked like the great gatherings of a morally simpler time- a broad church of races and political persuasion and ages. Students, grey-haired hippies, gnarled struggled veterans, impassioned activists, concerned citizens, Christians, Muslims, Jews, atheists. Certainly they were there to pay their respects, in our long history of political funerals. But I suspect that there was not one among them who did not want to hear their names, to see finger after finger pointed at Zuma, Bathabile Dlamini, Faith Muthambi and the others who have bought us to this point. But names were not named, and the crowd trickled out, perhaps not empty-handed, but without the cornucopia one would have liked.And now there is a sickening feeling that this moment of heat will dissipate entropically and silently. The lowly MP will put her head down and avoid her children s eyes and turn her attention to more material matters of homes and holidays, and perhaps even the details of governance. The virtue signallers who faced the cameras yesterday and uttered platitudes will console themselves with the dictates of party unity and cast their gaze on the next rung of the political ladder.And we will continue our slide - state coffers raided, SOE s disintegrating, poverty widening - and somewhere, somewhere at the end of this this line a child dies because the state had no funds, commitment or competence to support the protected cocoon of citizenry that should have been her due. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.