Photographs taken at the funeral of Ahmed Kathrada in Johannesburg'For the first time I literally have my heart in my throat: the fear is palpable'It's a multibillion-dollar transnational business empire with its own financial targets, line managers, security personnel and CEOs'They are bigger than anything that has been recorded anywhere in the world'The insurgency, which has spread to five provinces, poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of President Joseph KabilaThe proposed new family tree includes two reformulated categories, or clades, of dinosaurs to replace the two that paleontologists have long recognizedA bronze bust of the player with a toothy grin and bulging eyes instantly created a laugh on social media because of its debatable likeness'We need to stop fighting with yesterday'President Jacob Zuma effected his latest Cabinet reshuffle on Thursday; a merry-go-round that saw no less than 10 changes to his ministers alone.In the biggest move finance minister Pravin Gordhan was axed and replaced by Malusi Gigaba formerly the home affairs head honcho.Zuma also fired Tina Joemat-Petterson and replaced her with ANC MP Mmamoloko Nkhensani Kubayi as energy minister. Kubayi was an ANC proportional representative councillor in Johannesburg from 2006 to 2009 and also the chairperson of portfolio committee on transport during the same period. She also served in the ANC Youth League as a Provincial Executive Council (PEC) member in Gauteng.Dipuo Peters got the chop from the transport minister s post and was replaced by an ANC PEC member from Limpopo Joe Maswanganyi. In 2015 he was moved from the Limpopo executive and sent to parliament. At the time he was touted for a cabinet position.Public service and administration minister Ngoako was axed and replaced with Faith Muthambi. Muthambi was replaced in communications by Ayanda Dlodlo who served as Ramathlodi s deputy. Derek Hanekom has been fired from the tourism portfolio and replaced by his deputy Thoko Xasa.Despite being at the helm of the social grants payment debacle Bathabile Dlamini survived Zuma s latest axe swinging.In a statement issued after midnight Zuma said: I have decided to make changes to the National Executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness. The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the National Executive in order to benefit from their energy experience and expertise. I have directed the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality. Here s an easy-to-understand list of who got chopped who got shifted and who will be breathing a sigh of relief this morning:FIRED: Energy - Tina Joemat-Pettersson FIRED and REPLACED by Mmamoloko Nkhensani Kubayi Finance - Pravin Gordhan FIRED and REPLACED by Malusi Gigaba Public Service and Administration - Ngoako Ramatlhodi FIRED and REPLACED by Faith Muthambi Tourism - Derek Hanekom FIRED and REPLACED by Tokozile Xasa Transport - Dipuo Peters FIRED and REPLACED by Joe MaswanganyiMOVED: Communications - Faith Muthambi REPLACED by Ayanda Dlodlo and MOVED to Public Service and Administration Home Affairs - Malusi Gigaba REPLACED by Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize and MOVED to Finance Public Works - Thembelani Nxesi REPLACED BY Nathi Nhleko and MOVED to Sports and Recreation Police - Nathi Nhleko REPLACED by Fikile Mbalula and MOVED to Public Works Sports and Recreation - Fikile Mbalula REPLACED by Thembelani Nxesi and MOVED to PoliceRETAINED: Health - Aaron Motsoaledi Basic Education - Angie Motshekga Social Development - Bathabile Dlamini Higher Education Blade Nzimande State security - David Mahlobo Cooperative Governance - Des van Rooyen Economic Development - Ebrahim Patel Environmental Affairs - Edna Molewa Rural Development - Gugile Nkwinti Planning Monitoring and Development - Jeff Radebe Human Settlements - Lindiwe Sisulu Public Enterprises - Lynne Brown International Relations - Maite Nkoana-Mashabane Justice - Michael Masutha Labour - Mildred Oliphant Mineral Resources - Mosebenzi Zwane Science and Technology - Naledi Pandor Arts and Culture - Nathi Mthethwa Water and Sanitation - Nomvula Mokonyane Defence - Nosiziwe Mapisa-Nqakula Trade and Industry - Rob Davies Agriculture Fisheries and Forestry - Senzeni Zokwana Telecommunication and Postal Services - Siyabonga Cwele Women in the Presidency - Susan Shabangu- TMG Digital. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.