'It is getting down to the point where we have to make emergency decisions. Daily we are making decisions''We can t continue to fossilize the movement. The ANC has to go through a thorough process of modernization'Ramatlhodi told amaBhungane that he was pressured to effectively blackmail Glencore owner of the Optimum coal mine which supplied coal to Eskom s Hendrina power stationZuul belonged to a group of Cretaceous Period dinosaurs called ankylosaurs that were among the most heavily armored land animals ever'Obviously, they re in a downward spiral right now and they ve got to come to grips with all that s happening''Thank you to Donald J Trump for the comedy. The J stands for Jesus. A lot of people don t know that'The Springboks were drawn with world champions New Zealand in Pool B for Rugby World Cup 2019 at a ceremony in Kyoto on Wednesday'The sky has shifted. And now the sand, white and fine and unmoved by a breeze, is running through the hourglass'A driver was shot dead near OR Tambo International Airport this afternoon and his vehicle transporting six passengers to the airport was hijacked.The incident that took place at about 4.30pm was filmed by a motorist and shared on social media.Where do people get assault rifles and shoot people like they&#39;re dogs? Worse it had to happen at #ORTambo pic.twitter.com/nI30SvjhxuPolice said the driver of a Hyundai H1 motor vehicle was shot dead by a brazen group of criminals. Preliminary reports indicate that the driver of the Hyundai H1 was transporting a group of six businesspeople from Johannesburg to the airport when a vehicle attempted to flag them down. The driver of the Hyundai continued driving towards the airport Major-General Sally de Beer said.As he took the off-ramp to the airport the vehicle was blocked by two other vehicles one a black VW Golf whose occupants shot and fatally wounded the H1 driver De Beer said.The suspects then jumped into the H1 and drove off with the passengers. They were later abandoned in Rhodesfield Kempton Park after being robbed of their belongings including cellphones. No one was injured according to initial reports De Beer said.Acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane said matter would be thoroughly investigated. We would not at this stage want to speculate on the motive for the crime. Once we have further facts at our disposal gathered from the crime scene victims witnesses and other relevant evidence we will be in a position to make further details available Phahlane said.- TMG Digital Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. Need to stay informed? Investors Monthly is a magazine published by Times Media, Media Division included in the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of the month. &copy; 2017 Times Media Group. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy.